Title: Reid Hoffman doesn't want Big Tech's pivot from fact-checking to mean more misinformation
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/linkedin-reid-hoffman-content-moderation-mark-zuckerberg-trump-2025-1

Reid Hoffman said tech platforms embracing freedom of speech shouldn't mean more misinformation.

The LinkedIn founder said on Monday that his platform "reflects my point of view on these things."

Hoffman said it's "extremely important" for tech leaders to be working with the Trump adminstration.

As tech companies like Meta move away from fact-checking, LinkedIn's cofounder Reid Hoffman doesn't want it to come at the expense of more misinformation.

At the Paris AI Action Summit, Hoffman said having a space for "civil dialogue" is "incredibly important" but shouldn't mean more posts around topics like "anti-vax misinformation."

While Meta and X have loosened their content moderation policies — with Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk arguing that they can stifle free expression — Hoffman suggested his own platform, LinkedIn, better "reflects my point of view on these things."

"I think that it's important to get to the equivalent of fact-checking," he said on Monday, adding, "We're innovating in that direction."

"What I would like to see more from the tech industry is less of a rollback where freedom of speech might mean anti-vax misinformation or other kinds of things, and more of a learning dialogue," Hoffman said in response to a question about Zuckerberg's recent policy changes.

Hoffman's stance places him at odds with some of Silicon Valley's most powerful figures, including longtime ally Zuckerberg.

While he defended the Meta CEO from criticism for attending Trump's 2025 inauguration, Hoffman has previously warned that social media companies have an obligation to uphold fact-checking standards.

"Social networks should, in fact, take a certain social responsibility," Hoffman told NPR last month.

Unlike Zuckerberg, Musk, and other top tech executives, Hoffman was notably absent from Trump's 2025 inauguration. Several billionaires stood onstage, but Hoffman wasn't invited — a reflection, he said, of his political differences and his position as an outspoken critic of Trump's policies.

"I assumed it's partly that I'm not a current CEO of a giant company, but the political difference with my fellow tech founders is hard to overlook," Hoffman, who backed Kamala Harris, told NPR.

Despite Hoffman's exclusion from Trump's inauguration, when asked at the Paris AI Action Summit about the relationship between tech CEOs and Trump, he said he thought the "Trump administration staffing people who understand technology" was a good thing, adding, "It is extremely important for all governments to be in dialogue with the technology industry."

He went on to compare AI to previous industrial revolutions, saying it will bring a "huge increase in productivity" but also challenges, "namely the transition that goes into how society fits, and so I think those organizations being in dialogue with governments is great."

Hoffman said that tech companies "now, more than ever," need to be able to articulate their beliefs "about what society needs" and how they are building their technology.