Title: PARIS AI CONFERENCE: JD Vance Walks Out of Dinner With Heads of State in the Middle of Speech by Chinese Vice-Premier – Then Later Takes a Shot at China
Source: Freerepublic.com
URL: https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4296715/posts

Skip to comments.

PARIS AI CONFERENCE: JD Vance Walks Out of Dinner With Heads of State in the Middle of Speech by Chinese Vice-Premier – Then Later Takes a Shot at China

Posted on by bitt

US Vice-President JD Vance is in Paris for the AI Summit, and he has made it clear not to be joking around. He was reported to have walked out of a dinner with heads of state on Monday night, the 10th, during the Chinese vice-premier speech.

The Chinese official reportedly ‘started singing the praises of trade and the UN.’ This was a hit against President Trump and his administration.

The Telegraph reported:

“Dominique Seux, the only French journalist present at the dinner at Paris’s Elysée palace on Monday night, said the US vice-president, clearly saw the speech – delivered by Zhang Guoqing – as ‘pure anti-Trumpist’.

The report came before Mr. Vance took to the stage at the AI Action summit in the French capital on Tuesday to warn both European allies and rivals like China against ‘excessive regulation’ of artificial intelligence and tightening governments’ grip. He also rejected what he called content moderation as ‘authoritarian censorship’.”

“’America wants to partner with all of you’, he said. ‘We want to embark on the AI revolution before us with the spirit of openness and collaboration. But to create that kind of trust, we need international regulatory regimes that foster the creation of AI technology rather than strangle it, and we need our European friends in particular to look to this new frontier with optimism’.”

Vance said that it’s troubling that foreign governments are reportedly considering ‘tightening screws on US tech companies with international footprints.’

He stated that the Trump administration will not accept that.

The VP said that the world was on the brink of a ‘new industrial revolution’ but that ‘over-regulation deters innovators from taking the risks necessary to advance the ball’.

“In what appeared to be a warning shot at China, Mr. Vance also said the US would ‘safeguard AI and chip technology from theft and misuse and close pathways to adversaries that threaten us. Partnering with such regimes never pays off in the long term’, he said, without specifying the regimes he was referring to.”

..more



TOPICS:

KEYWORDS:

aiconference

chicoms

china

jdvance

speech

vance





To: null and void; aragorn; EnigmaticAnomaly; kalee; Kale; AZ .44 MAG; Baynative; bgill; bitt; ...

p



To: bitt

Dominique Seux Sounds like an OnlyFans channel



by 3 posted onby BenLurkin (The above is not a statement of fact. It is opinion or satire. Or both.)

To: bitt

I’d be like “I’m leaving! (Um, could I have a to-go box for this?)”



To: bitt

Certainly we expected this. Time to find out what JD Vance is made of.



To: Larry Lucido

“Screw you guys, I’m going home!”



To: dfwgator

It’s Paris. Could always to to McDonald’s for a Royale w/Cheese.



To: bitt

bkmk



by 8 posted onby ptsal (Vote R.E.D. >>>Remove Every Democrat ***)

To: bitt

Good for him. I like him immensely. I loved this response a day or two ago about the sacking of "Big Balls" on his DOGE team: This X exchange between JD Vance and the Democrat Turd Ro Kahanna really cemented why I like him: VANCE: I obviously disagree with some of Elez’s posts [Big Balls] but I don’t think stupid social media activity should ruin a kid’s life. We shouldn’t reward journalists who try to destroy people. Ever. So I say bring him back. If he’s a bad dude or a terrible member of the team, fire him for that. KHANNA: Are you going to tell him to apologize for saying "Normalize Indian hate" before this rehire? Just asking for the sake of both of our kids. VANCE: For the sake of both of our kids? Grow up. Racist trolls on the internet, while offensive, don't threaten my kids. You know what does? A culture that denies grace to people who make mistakes. A culture that encourages congressmen to act like whiny children. I love this amazing team that Trump is assembling. Just love it.

I love this amazing team that Trump is assembling. Just love it.

by 9 posted onby rlmorel ("A people that elect corrupt politicians are not victims...but accomplices." George Orwell)

To: Larry Lucido

The Chinese probably put pubic hairs in his food anyway.



by 10 posted onby Enterprise (These people have no honor, no belief, no poetry, no art, no humor, no patriotism.)

To: rlmorel

What a great response to the PC Nazis.



by 11 posted onby bray (It's not racist to be racist against races the DNC hates.)

To: bitt

Trace this back to our beloved Slick Willy and his wench giving away tech secrets to other countries. We can’t have the US being the leader in anything, it’s not fair.



To: bitt

JD thought bubble halfway through the Chinese speaker’s dinner speech.

“I shoulda ordered room service”



To: rlmorel

If the kid had called himself “Terrific Trans”, “Great Gay”, or “Big Vagina” he would have been okay.



To: ImJustAnotherOkie

Obviously things are going well, then. The CCP is busy puffing themselves up with their “Great Leap Forward” in AI, which seems to be more hype than reality. But seriously, now more than ever, this plunge into the mysterious world of AI has some daunting challenges, and it appears to be a tool easy to misuse and/or abuse.



by 15 posted onby alloysteel ( Beware the old soldier. There's a reason he's old.)

To: rlmorel

+1



To: ImJustAnotherOkie

I had my doubts of whether JDVance was going to not be squishy but he is proving that he may be the heir apparent. He needs to learn fast in case trump has a medical issue or gets assassinated



To: RummyChick

If anything bad happens I have confidence Vance will be fine.



by 18 posted onby SaxxonWoods (Black guy upon receiving a MAGA hat: "MURICA!")

To: alloysteel

Most things Chinese are smoke and mirrors. It’s a culture that rewards style over substance. And it’s something that will bring the Communist party down in time. They’re a bronze giant with feet of clay. CC



by 19 posted onby Celtic Conservative (My cats are more amusing than 200 channels worth of TV.)

To: All

No idea why he is out of Washington when confirmation votes are pending. Was the Administration told the nominations are not at risk? Told by whom? GOPe Swamp Filth? Vance should not be away from Washington during these votes. Too risky.



Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson