Title: What big tech’s Trump love-in means for the future of brand safety
Source: The Drum
URL: https://www.thedrum.com/opinion/2025/01/20/what-big-tech-s-trump-love-means-the-future-brand-safety

Whether they are cozying up to Trump or finally showing their true colors, tech bros seem to be rolling back brand safety on their platforms. Wake the Bear’s Chris Andrews explains.

Sure, while X (Twitter) isn’t missed from many media plans because the product was weak before the humans escaped, Meta would be a harder habit to kick. Especially if its epoch-defining crusade (to defend the rights of the angry few to spout hate) bears fruit, fuelled by heaped tablespoons of Zuckerberg’s newfound ‘masculine energy.’

And all this while GARM (the Global Alliance for Responsible Media) has been sued out of existence by a manbaby having a very public tantrum about advertisers not bending the knee to give him more money.

Want to go deeper? Ask The Drum

Without the air cover of a standards body and political pressure (led by the big tech lobby) weighing against it, it’s easy for the inertia on brand safety to take hold, and for advertisers to focus on business as usual and strike a path for an easier life.

But just as I’d argue you wouldn’t open an outlet in a shopping centre where most of the shutters are down and daubed in racial slurs, the bins keep getting set on fire and you don’t know what the stink coming out of the toilets is, brands need to remain wary of who they associate with.

If we take brand safety to mean appearing in environments with which advertisers don’t mind associating their brand, it should be synonymous with an internet that works for the end user first and foremost. After all, it’s their time, attention and money you’re asking for.

So, on that basis, let’s not forget that even with current regulations, these social spaces are a million miles from benign hubs of warm community. The reason we crazy Europeans regulate them is to stop the kind of content that encourages self-harm and hate crimes. We also want to encourage tech to contribute to the health of the body politic rather than pay lip service to a Silicon Valley interpretation of free speech, which for a vocal few is just the right to say the quiet part out loud.

But what follows?

Advertisement

Meta’s supposed about-turn on moderation doesn’t fundamentally alter the debate. In the grand scheme, the change that is causing most consternation is that big tech is publicly cosying up to the Trump administration, themselves saying their own quiet part out loud. The end of fact-checking will make a difference, but let’s not kid ourselves. It’s not like reporting outright hateful content on these platforms often really goes anywhere, as it is even with the heft of regulation.

Elsewhere, restrictive exclusion lists are already hampering legitimate sites and platforms from monetizing fairly while AI-generated MFA mulch proliferates. Brand safety in its current guise feels (necessarily) more about the restriction from harm than creating the currency of positivity; ultimately protecting the status quo of more and bigger, except where price is concerned.

Advertisement

The fight for proper brand safety was always going to be an uphill battle, while the incentives of the online economy are set so squarely in favor of the race to the bottom. It was hard enough when inflation and interest rates were, by comparison, blissfully low.

The percentage points added there over recent years have, as we know, hammered consumer confidence, driven down returns, and sent a lot of plans towards the safe havens of the tried and true, or the low intervention, black box, media-by-algorithm of PMAX/Advantage+.

What’s coming down the track isn’t just a brand safety issue in the content adjacency sense. It is, and remains, the routing of ad money to the poisoning of public discourse. We’re entering the next phase in the ‘enshittification’ era (h/t Cory Doctorow) of the internet. If we’re lucky - and I’m not sure we will be - it might signal the death knell of the dominance of walled garden monopolies as they feast on their own entrails in the search for a few points of growth.

The optimist in me thinks it could lead to the flourishing of challenging, ambitious and vibrant alternatives where the reasoned and robust exchange of ideas can take place without swinging into the kind of abuse from morons who think it’s acceptable to threaten a footballer’s baby because he missed a couple of chances. Such platforms do exist - look at WeAre8, for example - but they need the opportunity to grow out of the current toxic social mire.

Suggested newsletters for you Daily Briefing Catch up on the most important stories of the day, curated by our editorial team. Weekly Marketing Stay up to date with a curated digest of the most important marketing stories and expert insights from our global team. The Drum Insider Learn how to pitch to our editors and get published on The Drum.

This should be a moment for ambition and subverting the perverse incentives that govern monetization online that focus solely on more impressions and lower costs. While any decent media agency - ourselves included - will be doing everything they can to ensure their clients’ ads appear in safe environments, away from toxicity, negativity and any other hideousness found online, perhaps there could be more exploration of initiatives like the GoodNet’s GoodIQ that delivers optimizations toward media that operate in service of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.

Let’s create the incentives for a knowledge economy that celebrates difference while informing, educating and entertaining, rather than chasing division and harm for preferential treatment from the algorithm. From there, more brand-safe environments can emerge regardless of political or philosophical hue.

In the meantime advertisers need to navigate this current space with dexterity, making their investments in companies and environments that facilitate free, robust and civil discussion of facts rather than launching money into the howling void.

Chris Andrews is head of advertising technology at Wake the Bear. Continue the conversation with him on LinkedIn.

Read more opinion on The Drum.