Title: Virginia's research colleges brace for major cuts to federal grants
Source: Richmond.com
URL: https://richmond.com/news/state-regional/government-politics/vcu-uva-virginia-tech-trump-medical-research/article_44b0c034-e7c9-11ef-bf90-7b83d05dac9b.html

Virginia’s research institutions, including the University of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth University and Virginia Tech, are bracing for immediate reductions in existing federal grants for research into cancer and other diseases under new policy that the National Institutes of Health implemented on Monday.

Virginia Tech alone estimates that it stands to lose $13 million in federal funding because of the policy change, which college leaders say will have a significant effect on health innovation.

“Lives will be lost due to the corresponding reduction in the pace of biomedical research,” President Tim Sands said Monday. “It will degrade the nation’s ability to compete in a global technology environment, threaten our national security, and impact the economies of the states and localities that host these institutions.”

The other institutions have not commented publicly on the potential cost of the policy change, but a nonprofit higher education advocacy group estimates a cumulative loss of federal funding to Virginia research institutions at about $72 million.

“The NIH announcement will have an immediate and significant impact on universities that conduct medical research,” said Bob Holsworth, a Richmond political scientist who previously served as both a dean and a member of the board of visitors at VCU, in an online commentary.

The initiative, led by President Donald Trump and ally Elon Musk, would put a 15% cap on indirect costs of medical research — the cost of buildings, equipment and staff necessary to support the work. The NIH said the change will apply to “any new grant, and for all existing grants,” beginning on Monday, although it said it would not apply the policy retroactive to when the government issued the grants.

Christian Martinez, a spokesman for Gov. Glenn Youngkin, said in a statement: “Making sure taxpayer-funded grants apply toward actual research and not administrative overhead is common sense, that’s exactly what this policy does. Governor Youngkin appreciates that President Trump is focused on being a good steward of taxpayer dollars.”

Indirect funding

When a university receives funding for a project, it typically receives funding for indirect purposes, such as lab space, electricity and support staff who conduct accounting or payroll. These costs are also known as facilities and administrative costs.

The amount of indirect funding varies from university to university and is negotiated by the school and the federal government. For example, VCU receives 55 cents of indirect funding for every $1 granted for direct research in most projects. UVa receives about 60 cents in indirect costs for every $1 of direct research funding. At Virginia Tech, the rate varies depending on the nature of the grant.

Last year, the NIH disbursed $392 million to Virginia colleges for health research, according to an estimate by the nonprofit Education Reform Now. If their indirect funds are reduced to 15%, colleges in the state stand to lose $72 million.

Those potential reductions include: $39 million at UVa; $19 million at VCU; and $11 million at Virginia Tech, according to the nonprofit.

Other universities — including James Madison University, the University of Richmond and Virginia State University — would also experience small effects.

“This news is concerning, and we are actively assessing the implications for research at UVa,” said Ian Baucom, executive vice president and provost, and Lori McMahon, vice president for research, in a message to faculty and other employees on Sunday.

Legal challenge

The change came under legal attack on Monday, as 22 states — not including Virginia — filed a lawsuit in federal court in Massachusetts that said the new policy would “devastate critical public health research at research institutions in the United States.”

“Without relief from NIH’s action, these institutions’ cutting edge work to cure and treat human disease will grind to a halt,” the states said in the lawsuit led by Massachusetts, home to MIT, a leading recipient of federal grant funding for biomedical research. Virginia’s neighbors, Maryland and North Carolina, are parties to the lawsuit. Both states have Democrats as attorneys general.

Relief didn’t take long. U.S. District Court Judge Angel Kelley issued a temporary restraining order on Monday night that blocks the policy change from taking effort on research grants, but only in the states that filed the lawsuit, not including Virginia. Kelly’s order gave NIH until Friday to file a brief in opposition and the states until Feb. 18 to reply. She set a hearing date on Feb. 21.

Rep. Don Beyer, D-8th, chided Attorney General Jason Miyares on social media for not joining the lawsuit. “We need leaders willing to stand up for Virginians,” Beyer said on X, a social media site owned by Musk.

The Trump administration, relying on work by the Department of Government Efficiency that Musk leads, contends the policy change will benefit direct medical research.

“The United States should have the best medical research in the world,” the NIH said in its policy guidance document on Friday. “It is accordingly vital to ensure that as many funds as possible go towards direct scientific research costs rather than administrative overhead.”

It said the percentage of grant funding that goes to indirect costs averages between 27% and 28%, but some institutions have negotiated higher rates, with some exceeding 61%. Most private foundations pay substantially less for indirect costs, up to 15%, if anything at all, the guidance said.

UVa officials say the university cannot perform direct medical research without the buildings, advanced equipment and staff that support it. Those indirect costs “are the essential costs of conducting research,” the officials said.

“These research expenses include: state-of-the art research laboratories; high-speed data processing; national security protections (e.g., export controls); patient safety (e.g., human subjects protections); radiation safety and hazardous waste disposal; personnel required to support essential administrative and regulatory compliance work, maintenance staff, and other personnel, infrastructure, and activities necessary for supporting research,” they added.

Baucom and McMahon advised “all researchers, regardless of funding agency, continue to do your research,” unless they have been served with a stop-work order, such as those served on contractors at the U.S. Agency for International Development, which the Trump administration says it wants to eliminate.

“We recognize the critical importance of your work and the potential challenges introduced by this new guidance,” they said.

VCU research funds

VCU told its researchers to continue submitting their grant proposals on time unless they are specifically told not to. The university advised them to monitor communication from their sponsoring agencies.

In 2023, VCU spent $480 million on research, according to the National Science Foundation. More than a quarter of that money came from the federal government’s Department of Health and Human Services and was used on health science research. Research has been a key facet of VCU’s growth in the past decade. The number of research dollars the university received has doubled in the past six years.

VCU researchers have developed numerous advancements in health care. One professor developed a product called Nerve Tape, used to bind broken nerves. Another group developed a first-of-its-kind vaccine to prevent Lyme disease in dogs.

At Virginia Tech, the majority of NIH funding goes to the Fralin Biomedical Research Institute in Roanoke. In fiscal 2024, Virginia Tech spent $308 million on research, with almost a third spent on indirect costs.

Holsworth, in his “Everything Virginia!” commentary, noted that the cancer centers at UVa and VCU “perform cutting edge research, offer large numbers of clinical trials, and provide state-of-the-art treatments, saving countless lives and giving hope for the future.”