Title: Cars and building spray-painted with antisemitic graffiti: ‘This isn’t the Australia we know and love’
Source: 7NEWS.com.au
URL: https://7news.com.au/news/cars-and-building-spray-painted-with-antisemitic-graffiti-this-isnt-the-australia-we-know-and-love-c-17587414

More cars and buildings have been spray-painted with anti-Jewish slogans as the nation’s leaders remain at odds on how to combat a string of attacks amid rising community anguish.

Police on Sunday are investigating an overnight spate of “offensive graffiti” in Sydney’s eastern suburbs.

The attacks targeted vehicles and garages with spray paint, and images online show cars damaged with graffiti saying “f*** Jews”.

Know the news with the 7NEWS app: Download today

The damage emerged as federal Opposition Leader Peter Dutton put major tech companies in the firing line over concerns young people are being radicalised amid the spate of anti-Semitic attacks.

Social media platforms profiting off kids need to do more to keep them safe online but failed to do so because of a focus on profits, he said.

“Our kids are on their devices constantly, the same rules should apply online as they do in the real world,” Dutton told ABC’s Insiders program on Sunday.

“If there’s child abuse material, which I’ve tried for years to get Facebook to take down, if there is that sort of explicit material, if there is terrorist-related advocacy and spreading of that hate message, they have the algorithms.

“They have the technology and now the AI to be able to clear it but of course, they don’t because they’re driven by profit.”

The comments come amid concern from the Australian Federal Police that overseas actors paid local criminals to conduct anti-Semitic attacks in Australia.

Previous attacks have included the firebombing of a synagogue and torching of multiple cars, which were also graffitied with the Nazi swastika and anti-Semitic language.

“As (Australian Security Intelligence Organisation director-general) Mike Burgess would point out, a young person sitting in front of a computer screen can be indoctrinated over a week or two because of the constant videos and bombardment of propaganda,” Dutton said.

“So there’s obviously the influence of social media, there’s the influence of people who are radicalised here in our own society.”

Dutton said ambiguity from the government about activities such as anti-Israel protests around university campuses that impacted Jewish students had resulted in an environment that allowed anti-Semitism to fester.

He accused the prime minister and universities of not being strong enough in condemning anti-Semitic conduct.

“To this very day, the universities haven’t given a proper account of how that was allowed to continue on,” he said.

“The prime minister did nothing about it, the marches on the streets that went on for months and months, waving flags of terrorist organisations, all of that allowed people to believe that there was no red line that could be crossed and there’s no consequence.”

Anti-Semitic incidents including graffiti and arson attacks are on the rise. Credit: AAP

Prime Minister Anthony Albanese has repeatedly and unequivocally condemned acts of anti-Semitism and called for perpetrators to be hunted down and prosecuted.

Federal and state police had investigated and charged people over the waving of terrorist flags at protests.

Pro-Palestine rallies are planned for Melbourne and Sydney on Sunday.

University heads have said they needed to balance free speech legal requirements on campus, noting this did not extend to violence, threats and intimidation.

Social Services Minister Amanda Rishworth accused Dutton of playing politics with a serious issue.

“It’s unacceptable that there are people of Jewish faith feeling unsafe in this country but for the government it’s about being responsible and making sure people are actually safe, not playing politics,” she told Sky News.

“So if the leader of the opposition just wants to play politics with this then he should be condemned, quite frankly, because it’s about what actually leads to safety in our community.”

Dutton has called for mandatory minimum prison time for terrorist offences to be included in hate speech laws set to come before the parliament in the coming days.

Doubt has been cast by the legal fraternity, human rights groups and the government about the effectiveness of mandatory minimum sentencing.

President of the NSW Jewish Board of Deputies David Ossip called for more to be done.

“There have been more than 10 publicly reported serious incidents of antisemitic vandalism, arson and worse in the last three weeks alone — a figure that doesn’t include the graffiti appearing on our streets on a daily basis or the abuse and harassment that goes unreported,” he said.

“It is incumbent upon society as a whole not to become desensitised to this campaign of domestic terrorism.

“This is not normal. This isn’t the Australia we know and love.

“To find our way back, every Australian must call out this behaviour, the terrorists perpetrating and arranging these crimes must be apprehended and penalties must be strengthened so that any would-be assailant is deterred.

“The Jewish community is not asking for any special treatment — only a return to normality.”