Title: Reddit groups ban X links in protest at Musk arm gesture
Source: BBC News
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c77r1p887e5o

Reddit groups ban X links in protest at Musk arm gesture

23 January 2025 Tom Gerken Technology reporter

Getty Images

More than 100 Reddit communities have banned users from posting links to X in protest at owner Elon Musk's controversial arm gesture at a rally celebrating Donald Trump's return to office. The billionaire twice extended his arm out straight as he thanked the crowd for "making it happen." Critics, including some historians, said it was a Nazi salute - Mr Musk has dismissed that, saying comparisons with Hitler were "tired" and "dirty tricks." However many Reddit users have been unpersuaded by his response describing his actions as "hateful", leading the moderators of scores of communities - or subreddits - to stop content being shared on X.

X has not commented but Reddit has stressed there is no sitewide ban on X links, telling the BBC in a statement it "has a longstanding commitment to freedom of speech and freedom of association". However the platform relies heavily on community moderation, where unpaid individuals known as Redditors decide what is - and isn't - allowed to be published on their own corner of the website. In many instances, those Redditors have reached a different conclusion, deciding Mr Musk's actions were so offensive that they won't link to content from their subreddits on X, potentially reducing traffic, engagement and - ultimately - revenue. The biggest subreddits to have enforced the ban include basketball community r/NBA, which has 15 million members, female-focused community r/TwoXChromosomes, which has 14 million members, and American football community r/NFL, which has 12 million members. It is worth remembering that subreddits are almost always run by fans - it does not mean that the NFL or NBA organisations are taking a stance against Musk. The BBC has independently verified that at least 100 subreddits have banned X posts. Of this number, more than 60 have at least 100,000 members. But the actual number that have instituted the ban will likely be significantly higher by taking into account smaller subreddits with only a few thousand members. And there are many more communities discussing a potential blacklisting.

Who and why?

The subreddits run by fans of football clubs Liverpool, Celtic and Tottenham Hotspur have all instituted the bans, as have communities for many US sports sides as well as Formula 1. The subreddits where residents of many cities and countries gather around the world - ranging from New Jersey to South Korea - have also blocked posts to X. And gamers are also amongst those to bring in the ban for video games including Baldur's Gate 3 and World of Warcraft. But while the blacklisting may have first started in some of these communities, it is popping up in a variety of places now where people gather to discuss all sorts of topics, ranging from RuPaul's Drag Race to Disneyland and even the military. While the vast majority of subreddits discussing a ban are in favour of it, there are some that have refused. The moderators of the Maine community for example say they won't institute a ban so long as "the state maintain official accounts there". And those running a group for people in British Columbia said they simply aren't "doing censorship here".

Does it matter?