Title: A Texas-based TikTok challenger called Clapper is seizing the moment
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/clapper-user-growth-sky-rocketing-tiktok-ban-alternatives-2025-1

The app Clapper is reaping the benefits of the forthcoming TikTok ban.

Clapper is a social-video app founded in 2020 and based in Texas.

It offers an ad-free experience and monetization for creators.

Clapper, an upstart video and livestreaming app, has soared to third place in the free iPhone app download charts. The surge started in the days before the Supreme Court reached its decision to uphold a law to ban TikTok in the US.

Clapper was founded in 2020 when the first Trump administration initially floated the possibility of a TikTok ban. Bita Motiie, Clapper's head of operations, told BI that since then, Clapper has seen spikes in user growth any time the topic has been in the news.

"We've seen skyrocketing numbers of users joining us recently due to the fact that people are actively now looking for an alternative," Motiie said.

A Clapper spokesperson said the company had added more than 2 million users in the past week.

Data analyzed by market intelligence firm Sensor Tower found that Clapper had increased its US ad spend 10-fold in the month to January 14 this year compared with the same period in 2024. Nearly 100% of its US ad spend was allocated to TikTok, Sensor Tower said.

Clapper had already upped its advertising budget by 35% in the second half of 2024, compared with the first, suggesting the outlay was a response to news of an upcoming TikTok ban, according to Sensor Tower.

The top trending topic on Clapper on Wednesday through to Friday when the ban was confirmed was #TikTokRefugees.

A similar dynamic seems to have pushed the TikTok-like app Xiaohongshu, also known as RedNote, to No. 1 on the free iPhone apps leaderboard.

Clapper has been seeing an influx of users, likely because of a potential TikTok ban. Clapper

The US Congress passed a divest-or-ban law last year forcing TikTok to stop operating in the US if its Chinese parent company, ByteDance, doesn't sell the app. TikTok told the Supreme Court that the app would "go dark" in the US on Sunday if the divestment deadline isn't extended. The Supreme Court on Friday confirmed it would uphold the law.

"A lot of our focus right now is helping all these TikTok users join our platform and learn about the differences," Motiie said.

Clapper shares much of the same vertical video functionality as TikTok but differs in a few key ways. It's only available to users 17 or older and doesn't carry ads.

"People are being bombarded with ads 24/7 through their phones, and we want to provide a safe haven where creators can focus on that genuine connection with others," Motiie said.

Creators can earn money on Clapper by receiving gifts from other users in livestreams, group chats, and direct messages. Creators can also sell subscriptions to their content or items on Clapper Shop. Clapper takes a 30% commission from some creator earnings and 5% from Clapper Shop.

Clapper's content can appear rougher around the edges than some other social-media platforms. On opening the app in the UK on Wednesday morning, BI was served a video of a man seemingly getting a horrific eye injury after being hit in the face, a woman almost being gored by a bull, and sexually suggestive "thirst traps."

Users can turn off "not safe for work" content. The app also forbids sexually explicit content or nudity.

Motiie said Clapper was focused on hiring three to four additional community managers and utilizing AI moderation tools. Clapper is a small business at present, with around 20 staff based in Dallas, Texas.

A Clapper spokesperson said the company hadn't taken on any outside funding since 2023, when it raised $3 million in seed financing. The spokesperson said Clapper, which is privately owned, is profitable and that it is not currently seeking further investment.

Related stories

Industry insiders say Clapper needs to move quickly to seize the moment

Asti Wagner, CEO of Invyted, an app that connects brands with influencers, said Clapper would need to move quickly to appeal to creators and refine its marketing to ensure its overnight popularity translates into lasting business success.

"TikTok was lucky in that it massively boomed in lockdown when everyone was on their phones," Wagner told BI.

"The 'no ads' thing is really interesting, but I don't know how long that will last," Wagner said. Social platforms, in general, tend to derive most of their revenue from ads.

Motiie said it was very unlikely Clapper would introduce ads over the next couple of years. However, that doesn't mean brands can't collaborate with Clapper creators, she added. Clapper is also encouraging brands to set up their own profiles on the app.

Gigi Robinson, a creator with more than 150,000 followers on TikTok, joined Clapper in 2020.

She's only posted four videos and grown her audience there to around 1,000 followers. However, Robinson said that in light of TikTok's position, she's considering posting more content on Clapper and has been in touch with the company's partnership team to get her profile verified.

Robinson said the potential of the app going dark has highlighted that creators shouldn't be over-reliant on any single platform for their audience and earnings.

"A majority of creators are scrambling right now," Robinson told BI. "That's going to be the lasting impact."

This story has been updated with new details.