Title: Biden Surgeon General Suggests Joe Rogan Podcast Should Be Censored: Big Tech ‘Has Important Role To Play’ ... at what point does government influencing private media become 'government censorship'?

Post:


Top Comments:
This is horribly editorialized, and the basis of the headline isn't even anything the Surgeon general suggests. The headline actually comes from the author, Amanda Prestigiacomo's  bald-faced assertion that unnamed "legacy media" and unnamed "left-wing activists" have demanded censorship.
How do you all even read these trash headlines and think clicking on it is a good idea? That article quotes what he actually says and it's nothing like the headline and they even unquote him to put in phrases like "big tech".

This is why people just think you're looney conspiracy nuts because you can't articulate a point without some sensational headline overselling what someone says. If a person and what they say is bad, it shouldn't need all those buzz words.
>This not just about what the government can do,” he emphasized, “this is about companies and individuals recognizing that the only way we get past misinformation is if we are careful about what we say and use the power that we have to limit the spread of misinformation.”

Sounds like he's advocating for people think about whether the info they're spreading is accurate and for private companies to try and curb the spread of misinformation. What part of this involves the government itself censoring JRE exactly?

Edit: so no one  actually takes the time to even skim the article before forming an opinion? No wonder our country is going to the shitter
"…at what point does government influencing private media become 'government censorship'?"

We passed that point some time ago. There is so much coordination between the democrat party and big tech that big tech is essentially a part of the government.
The point here isn’t whether Joe Rogan is full of shit or not.  If the government can silence someone who is full of shit they can silence someone who they simply don’t like.  Whose message they don’t want out there because it threatens their stranglehold on power. 

Whatever adversarial relationship the right might have with social media companies it isn’t a threat and could never be a threat.  What is a threat is this implication that government officials can get social media companies and other media to do their bidding to silence people.  

The role of a surgeon general isn’t to decide who gets to communicate and who’s doesn’t.  It’s to help set public health policy and too bad if there are critics.  Critics are healthy in a democratically elected government.  Even if they are incorrect in the criticism the answer isn’t censorship.  Rebuke them with facts and evidence.