Title: There is no free speech when moderated by liberals.

Post:
I was over on DebateVaccines and was kicked for using the term 'incel'.

All day long, every day, liberals are name calling anyone they disagree with as 'fascists', 'Nazis', 'conspiracy theorist', 'Q-Anons', and yet nothing is done.

Like FaceBook, the moderators do one thing, respond to reports from liberals with hurt feelings. When this happens, the moderators look up in their little book of banned words and say "Ah ha!", page 10,247, in the invisible book of banned words and they find clearly written in black and white, "Incel" is a banned word.

Of course this is ludicrous. There is no banned list of words, it is completely subjective and they do nothing about the more offensive language cast about by the liberals.

So in reality there is no free speech on Reddit, FaceBook, or anywhere else because anonymous hurt liberals that use the most foul language and insults will always get the attention. More conservative types who believe in free speech do not behave this way and are in turn victimized by liberals and their demands are enforced by moderators that would not know free speech if it slapped them off the chair.

The truth is, there is no free speech on social media. There never was and there never will be.

Top Comments:
Literally experiencing this on Twitter right now.  I was called the most atrocious names, targeted, personally harassed … and then two of them reported my tweets for “hate speech.”  ????  I never called anyone anything and did not target anyone, I simply stated a scientific fact about mental illness.  Banned.  So I created a new account as an experiment — for the express purpose of reporting all of their hateful tweets toward me.  Just to see if they would also get banned.  After I reported everything, the tweets are still there.  My profile photo is very clearly a black woman, and they said some horribly racist things toward me (remember, black *conservative* lives don’t matter) yet their tweets and accounts remain active because they put pronouns and “BLM” in their profiles.  Disgusting.
There are plenty of other websites that are freespeech protected use those. Stop using reddit and apps unless absolutely necessary. Encourage others to follow the above advice.
You’re making the same mistake as the “liberals.” Blaming private individuals and fellow citizens instead of those wielding power.

If your solution is to fight your fellow man, then you’re only adding to the problem and doing the bidding of tech companies and politicians.

We need to stick up for each other, no matter how drastically different our world views may be.
Even America, the country that stood against communism for decades is turning into China. And now people in China are fighting against communism. Oh, how the tables have turned.
free speech is subjective, unfortunately. and today it is controlled by people who define it in a narrow way

https://kennythecollins.medium.com/culture-is-cancelled-5232716e3f3c