Title: Big tech and social media are subsidized by the state and yet a lot of so call libertarians here are all ok with banning and censoring whoever....

Post:
So big tech and social media are subsidized by the government IE our tax money. A lot of tax money goes towards paying for laying down fiber optic cables, launching satellites and building server rooms. We are talking about tens of billions in government subsidies... In effect they have become the public forum of the modern age.

And yet a lot of so call libertarians here are okay with letting big tech companies banning and censoring who ever they want... Thats what I dont get... 

They aren't 100% private companies and are also becoming one of the primary ways of communication. Yes they are the public forums like during the ancient geeks... 

I get the fact that we shouldn't regulate big tech and social media. but to let them censor anything they deem "hate speech" is anti free speech. 

If I have a business that's subsidized by tax payers I have no right to favor one group of tax payers over another.

Can someone explain why so many supposed libertarians here who supposedly believe in free speech are okay with letting government subsidized companies censor whoever they want...? And favor certain groups over others...?

https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2018/jul/02/us-cities-and-states-give-big-tech-93bn-in-subsidies-in-five-years-tax-breaks

Top Comments:
We subsidize the hell out of pharma, oil, and farms too but you’re not arguing those should be treated like public utilities. 

You’re just mad about losing your safe spaces and social media bubbles lol.
Libertarians are absolutely not ok with the government subsidizing big tech or really any other business. And can you really say they're not private companies just because they get govt funds? I struggle to think of any American business that could be labeled private by that logic. At the least, they all get support in the form of tax breaks.

Plus, freedom from compelled speech is every bit as important as freedom of speech. Not being forced to do things like say the pledge of allegiance or put a message on a cake are important rights.
>  to let them censor anything they deem "hate speech"

It's part of their terms of service. Even if they receive a lot of subsidies they shouldn't get, users are still required to abide by the TOS they agreed to when they signed up for the service. End of story. Don't like it, don't use it. The police aren't holding a gun to your head, forcing you to use Twitter. All the people they've banned or de-platformed (barring a small, *small* few who just happened to get the accidental ban) have broken those TOS, and were therefore banned. 

Get over it.
You ever hear of the Communications Act of 1934? It allows government to restrict what's on the airwaves. If they can do that, they aren't going to interfere with a private entity doing the same on its own property subsidies not withstanding.