Title: When will big tech’s assault on free speech be brought to an end?

Post:
It’s out of control, and bordering on creepy. The far left do not represent the majority of the country, in fact they are a minority. The only reason they appear otherwise is because of liberal domination of Hollywood, media, universities, and most major industries. Most working adults over 25 are center right.

When a handful of companies have what is essentially a monopoly on public discourse, you are no longer protected by the immunity of being a “private company.”

Top Comments:
Why doesn't Walmart allow me to stand in the middle of their store with a megaphone and spout off QAnon conspiracies? Is that censorship?
So much to unpack:

Sources for your accusation that Hollywood, media, social media , etc... is far left?

Any studies supporting your center right claim?  Can you even define the scale you are using?  (Some socialists would agree the us is center right, but they call all the entities you call far left as center right)

How do they have a monopoly on public discourse?  Can I no longer go out into a public space and speak my mind?  Can I no longer start my own social media site, or blog, or etc...

What is essentially a monopoly?  An oligopoly do you mean?

How does being the best and most desired by users lead to your property rights away?  Do you believe if a person owns a large portion of a towns land they should loose rights?  Do you consider the auto industry “essentially a monopoly” due to there only being about 10 major corporations owning all the brands in the US, should we take away their rights?  How about the local newspaper, many have a monopoly in the town their in?
Go start your own social media platform, then. 

They should run their own platforms as they like. 

Seems weird how they let us have this very discussion on such a platform...
>The far left do not represent the majority of the country, in fact they are a minority.

Indeed.

>The only reason they appear otherwise

Um....they don't.

>is because of liberal domination

So the centre right are making the far left look like a majority? Mkay

>of Hollywood, media, universities, and most major industries.

Most of these have a milquetoast authoritarian centre-left bias in the US. However, that's a milquetoast authoritarian centre-*right* bias in most other Western countries. Not sure if that's entirely down to the Overton window, or only partly.

>Most working adults over 25 are center right.

Source?

>When a handful of companies have what is essentially a monopoly

An oligopoly, surely

>on public discourse

They don't

>you are no longer protected by the immunity of being a “private company.”

Immunity? Immunity from what? Having your property seized? Actually no, I'm genuinely curious, here.

Surely you don't mean 'immunity from criticism' while criticising social media, *on* social media, with absolutely zero ramifications? Some immunity.

And yes, the computers you're storing your insane ramblings on are somebody's private property. You choose to do that. You have options, though. Use your own private property, or campaign for a publicly owned version. How popular would you like your business to become before the government swoop in and tell you it ain't yours any more?
"Social Media" is just websites. Popular websites. You are just lazy and entitled if you think someone removing your bullshit from their website is censorship. Mark Zuckerberg doesn't owe you shit. You can make any website you want, you just suck at it so you feel like someone else should have to do all the work for you. Not very libertarian.
Is this a rant?


 The tech companies are monitoring their own platforms as they see fit. It's their own property, essentially. Like if someone came in your house and you didn't like what they said.


I don't agree with some of it, or their process to do it, but again it's their own property.