Title: Rumble is a free speech platform, help it to stay alive 

Post:
Free Speech Under Attack -- A Note from the CEO of Rumble
 
 
Dear Rumble Users,
 
I don't typically send messages to our users through email, but red lines have been crossed. There have been major developments with free speech platforms, and I feel it’s important to let everyone know what is going on and how you can help Rumble.

Rumble is no longer available to the citizens of Brazil, joining the ranks of France, Russia, and China. From media reports, Brazil no longer has Elon Musk's X due to attacks on free speech by Alexandre De Moreas, a justice of Brazil's Supreme Federal Court.
 
World powers don’t want Rumble, they don’t want X, they don’t want Telegram, and they don't want Truth Social. They want to control information, but our companies won’t let them.
 
There are no other large companies fighting for freedom like we are. We put everything on the line for it, and the Telegram CEO was recently arrested for it.
 
Advertisers boycott our companies to try and cut our economic lifeline, but they underestimate our support among the people.
 
The people keep us alive and keep us going.
 
If you want to help us, join Rumble Premium. If Rumble Premium gets big enough, you help us change the game and fight for freedom of expression.

We are also offering a $10 dicount for any new annual subscribers when they use the promo code "brazil".
 
Sincerely,


Chris Pavlovski
Chairman and CEO of Rumble

 
Rumble Logo
444 Gulf of Mexico Dr.
Longboat Key, FL 34228, USA.

Top Comments:
Although Rumble promotes itself as a free speech platform and may genuinely aim to support open expression, its centralized structure allows content to be easily censored at the click of a button—whether by the company itself or under government pressure. This reality means it cannot truly be considered a free speech platform, so don't be misled into thinking otherwise.
I'm sure my opinions would be welcomed with open arms and it wouldn't turn into a complete shitshow because I don't agree with the prevailing orthodox opinions about geopolitics, and social & economic philosphy. 
Rumble censors legal free speech that is protected under the first amendment - while trying to demonize YouTube for making their own similar rules to censor legal free speech. They are inferior to YouTube as well. 

[https://www.thedailybeast.com/how-right-wing-free-speech-sites-like-rumble-and-gab-censor-legal-expression](https://www.thedailybeast.com/how-right-wing-free-speech-sites-like-rumble-and-gab-censor-legal-expression)