Title: Online censorship is like cyber bullying.

Post:
It looks a lot like that meme where 4 out of 5 guys like the idea of getting rid of the 5th guy. 

Clans and clicks determine who can say what. Mob rule. 

You insert a small rule here or there, and before you know it, it has become like the Great Wall. The mechanic is abused here as a form to punish and incite mental traumas on people looking for answers. It is an easily used and abused mechanic that uses the GREY AREA to suppress EVERYONE. 

And some are often quite smug about their actions. But how does someone feel when they are silenced? How often does the depression, anger and sadness actually evolve into something that manifests itself into the physical realm? A lot more than you think. They transfer frustration into physical actions. One way or another.

Maybe all participants should be criminally charged if anything does happen. It is after all, a form of cyber bullying. Using loopholes to create ways to make others of a different perspective feel terrible. The evidence is all over the room. Censorship and the damages it has caused.  

This could easily float itself to a politician. Many politicians were frustrated individuals who place those things done to them into laws. Laws that use that GREY AREA to bully others too. And remember the forums, because those people were CREATED HERE. Instead of answers, they got abused.

Now we can converse, or see what happens when we don’t. It is after all “freedom of speech”. 

Both inaction and actions have consequences.

What would be a good solution to deal with the current system of online censorship? (It’s not just online.)

Top Comments:
Take it further too, upvotes and downvotes on sites, no names mentioned :), could also be seen as a form of cyber bullying into dominant, accepted narratives.
The internet itself is the free speech platform.  

Apps and systems that run on the internet are controlled (and should be) by the owners of those apps and systems.

An app that uses closed source software, privately owned hardware, and Terms you have to legally agree to before you can use it, is not, cannot, and should not be a free speech platform.