Title: Why is no one talking about the fact that the White House (specifically the press sec. Jen Psaki) said that they were going to work with Facebook, Twitter, and other social media platforms to prevent the dissemination of “misinformation.”

Post:
If any of y’all have been keeping up with the news, I would think that most of y’all heard about Jen Psaki’s statements regarding the spread of “misinformation” on Facebook and Twitter and how they are putting in efforts to prevent the spread of misinformation on covid. I’ve also noticed that this hasn’t really been being discussed. In addition, there was the comment that she said if someone was banned on one platform, they should be on all platforms. What are y’all’s thoughts on this?

In my personal opinion, it seems pretty alarming because at the base, the central government is deciding what information can be spread and what can’t. I’m trying to form an opinion on this with the casual “good intention” mindset, taking into account that they could be going into this with good intentions. But given that lots of policies that at the base seem like a breach on individual liberties, it’s still should be taken into account that this could be easily taken advantage of, especially considering that the use of the term “misinformation” is hazily and subjectively defined. I’ve seen the use of the term be applied to not the facts of information being spread, but the implications brought from these facts. What are y’all’s thoughts on this?

Here are my sources with the least subjective parts of the articles I could find. I acknowledge the bias in these articles, but it’s important that when reading articles that have subjectivity behind it, you look at the primary sources listed in the secondary and tertiary sources.


Source 1: https://www.wsj.com/articles/censorship-coordination-deepens-11626474643

“‘We’re flagging problematic posts for Facebook,’ said White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki on Thursday, referring to coronavirus misinformation. Meanwhile, the Surgeon General, an officer in the department of Health and Human Services, released a report with a page of suggestions on ‘what technology platforms can do’ to crack down on certain information. The Verge reported that officials at Twitter ‘met with the surgeon general’s office on Monday to discuss its misinformation policies.’”

Source 2: https://www.forbes.com/sites/petersuciu/2021/07/16/misinformation-the-white-house-and-jen-psaki-didnt-actually-call-for-censorship-of-social-media/

“‘You shouldn’t be banned from one platform and not others if you are providing misinformation out there,’ is what she said, but many took those words out of context.”

The second half of that excerpt is irrelevant to the first half because it’s trying to downplay what she said. (in my personal opinion, but you’re free to form your own)

Again, these sources have biases, so don’t treat them as primary sources. Read into them and pinpoint the primary sources they use to form their article. Here are plenty of different sources talking about the topic:

https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2021/07/17/whs_psaki_if_youre_banned_on_one_social_media_platform_you_should_be_banned_on_all_others.amp.html

https://nypost.com/2021/07/16/government-dictating-what-social-media-bans-is-tyrannical/

https://www.politico.com/news/2021/07/16/psaki-vaccine-misinformation-499850

https://thehill.com/opinion/white-house/563547-hypocritical-psaki-leads-chilling-effort-to-flag-misinformation

Thoughts on this?

Top Comments:
My way of dealing with this shit, that if everyone followed suit would put this stuff to a hault? Dont use use Facebook. Don't use Twitter. 

If "we are the product", and we cease to show up, the powers that be would listen. I haven't used either of those for years (maybe log onto fb on a holiday for family stuff).......not that I personally would make any difference. But if enough people said "enough is enough" and went elsewhere, it would have some impact im sure.
It is a slippery slope that would absolutely be used for nefarious purposes. There has to be some way to deal with modern TV entertainment channels that pretend they're news while delivering nothing but lies and falsehoods.  We have a big problem in the United States and probably other places that complete crap is given equal footing with legitimate science and facts.
Regardless of anyone's opinions on vaccines and Covid misinformation, what's at stake here is the principle. Should the government dictate a "correct" position on anything and then pressure social media companies into banning users who go against it? You have to realize that this pressure isn't just "oh, we think you should help support the truth on your platforms"; given the congress social media hearings and controversy any such request carries an inherent threat if the social media company doesn't comply of increased regulatory scrutiny.

On the Covid issue specifically, for a while users were suppressed from sharing anything related to the Lab Leak theory until that theory gained mainstream credence. Is that really the way we want to carry out public discourse? That alternate opinions are silenced until the majority thinks they check out? Obviously private companies are welcome to kick out their users for any or no reason, but you can still see this as less than ideal.

And when you add the government to the mix, the potential for corruption and tyranny is just obvious. Imagine if the Bush administration existed in this current technological climate and used similar reasoning to silence anyone opposed to the Iraq War. They could easily claim that such speech was dangerous and leading to the erosion of support for the troops and the homeland they were protecting, thus also risking lives. We should all be united in opposing the government "suggesting" to social media sites that they censor certain opinions.

Edit: I think its amusing how the first two replies to my comment are from people who have a viewpoint on the 1st amendment that are clearly from opposite sides of the political continuum, neither of which are libertarian in my opinion.
I just want to know who gets to decide what is labeled misinformation? Dems? Repubs? Will there be a commission that votes on the truth? The party in power should NOT be responsible for determining what constitutes the truth. How else will there be accountability? When new evidence is presented,  will their findings be revisited? This is dangerous big brother territory.
I'm very busy at work right now.

More importantly, I'm busy trying to extract myself from the belief that the United States cares about individual freedom. Perhaps at some time, but no longer. Fighting for freedom and always losing seems like a great way to sink into the abyss.

Not that the rest of the world seems to be doing much better. Apparently the world has decided to embrace fear, and to gain security by giving up on individual liberty. (And yes, I know the Franklin quote.)
I've seen about a dozen reddit threads alone about this on the past few days, and the typical twitter crazies are bitching about it too. The first sentence of your post was either made in ignorance or bad faith.
Why are we such infants?  Entertaining this is the last thing I’d expect of true libertarians.  Get used to the concept that everyone is potentially lying to you, grow up, and think for yourself.   Certainly keep the government as far as possible from the truth arbitration business.
The word for this is creeping fascism, unfortunately the majority of the country is incapable of even perceiving this as they've been conditioned to think "fascism equals right wing equals Republicans equals the exact opposite of democrats"

Even most of the people you can get to admit that the democrats and Republicans are mostly the same and work for the same people have this conditioning