Title: Tucker: Deplatforming of Alex Jones is a Coordinated Effort by Big Tech, "Censorship is what happens when powerful people get scared"

Post:


Top Comments:
1) Private companies should be able to block certain people from using their platform for any reason whatsoever. If you don’t like that you’re banned on Twitter, use a different social media platform besides bitching that they’re supposedly infringing on your first amendment rights while pretending to know what that means.

2) Tucker Carlson is a loud mouth asshole. I feel like his show is just about about him trying to “own the libs.”
You are right. It's their right to ban anyone for any reason. It's like Friedman said, the business owner who goes down this road will get forced out of business by the market eventually. I wonder when some other censorship free video platform will come along and take YouTube's spot.
Since when did conservatives become so anti-free market? The market doesn't like this person's product and all of a sudden it's censorship. So hypocritical. I never remember seeing this outrage towards leftist outlets.

Forcing people to host content on their own servers is authoritarian. Don't like the fact that the content you create is a walking landmine for lawsuits and is not profitable to host, then make other content or host it yourself.
he should be glad he is being tolerated this much.

when i decide to live out my sociopathic and narcissistic side, it usually end much quicker. Alex Jones violates the NAP. The ban is an act of mental hygiene. He is just a parasite who doesn't contribute anything of value.

If a society tolerates this, it says: we are suckers and we like abuse.

He should start a new career: motivational speaker in an insane asylum. There he could make a difference and do something that benefits mankind.
This from a guy who thinks we should be working with the Russians.  

Alex Jones is a coward who has profited off the deaths of 26 people.  He has harassed, he has conspired to harass, he has antagonized those families for nearly 6 years now.  He is long overdue this treatment.  Why should these private companies allow him to profit using their platforms?  Shame on people like Tucker Carlson for, at the least, tacitly supporting the things Jones says.  
We all had a part in propping these companies up to give them the power to do stuff like this. 
For exactly this reason among others cryptocurrency was invented. But it really is concerning that big companies value their political views more than money and don't give a fuck about their employees and shareholders. Just shows that we don't live in times of reason anymore.
Private companies should NOT be able to pick and choose who they censor when.... 1. It's a monopoly, 2. It takes massive government subsidies. 
1). Agreed but then companies don’t want to be classified as media companies. They say they are only neutral platforms for people to share content, and thus the argument of bias. 

2). That’s why I enjoy him.