Title: Free speech as a concept is apparently extremely unpopular on reddit.

Post:
I've engaged in more than a few discussions of free speech this week. I'm not an absolutist. I think hate speech can be defined and clearly there are restrictions on free speech that most people wouldn't disagree with. However, no matter how I put that in general discussions, the idea of free speech does not seem to be something most of the people I've engaged with feel is important or worth protecting.

Most of the responses have been extremely insistent that this is a foregone conclusion and the only ones trying to defend free speech want freedom from consequences. What I want is an expectation that social media will not use it's tremendous power to deliberately create false realities where certain news stories, certain political candidates, certain ideological points of view are marginalized and not held accountable because "it's a private business." I think it's hypocritical to criticize Elon Musk for this WITHOUT acknowledging this is exactly why freedom of speech should be protected to some degree on social media.

The level of bad faith arguments and hostility I've received only makes it all the more strange. It almost feels like such discussions are being brigaded and targeted. This was a founding principle of our democracy. The constitution was not written with social media in mind and I don't feel like allowing billionaires or corporations to shape reality and affect the state of mind of it's subscribers deliberately and with impunity while marginalizing others for disagreeing with popular sentiment is a great idea.

Top Comments:
Its not free speech that is unpopular it's any sort of principled stance.  

Free speech is just the most common principled stance that comes under attack on reddit but you will see similar arguments that push for very subjective (unprincipled takes on): 

* "protests" vs political violence

* self-defense vs "he shouldn't have been there," etc.

* freedom of the press vs "misinformation" 

The historical classical liberal belief is that the benefits of these right outweigh the negative things that can be done with them.  The new position is that these rights can be restricted for some people entirely in the interest of some other higher principle.  (public safety, equity, etc) 

The basic morals of society have been changed to:

Consequentialism:  Ends justifies means, no bad tactics only bad targets, Its ok if my side does it because they are fighting for "the good."

The other side should be denied fundamental rights because they are pure evil and the exercise of their rights leads to harm to [insert victim group].
It's a very odd thing which has happened. The right and left have to some extent swapped places. The usual left critique against corporate media, widespread until about five minutes ago, was that if rich people were in charge of the media they would only let things appear which were in their interest. 

But now the "left" (or progressives and liberals, the kind of people you get on Reddit) seem to be fine with corporate hegemony as long as said hegemony is "on their side". As long as the correct shibboleths are recited, and as long as the right naughty words are banned, then they are fine with corporate censorship. 

This means that they were never really against corporate censorship *in principle*, but only against censorship which seemed to silence them. And a similar tendency exists on the right.

There can be no question of free speech or truly free expression in this chaotic battle, they are the first casualties of the culture war. Instead we just have a titanic battle between two great power units, each with their own grand narrative. Not only truly free expression but also nuance and doubt are not really tolerated.
And why should we not have protection from consequences for freedom of speech?

How many people have we seen who have suffered from having an unpopular opinion in a variety of ways?

Should the majority or even a minority be able to punish those with ideas different than their own?

I think there should be freedom from consequences for ideas, but not actions.

If you feel you have the right to take action against those who have unpopular ideas then you are on the wrong side friend. Your only legitimate response to unpopular ideas are your own ideas.
You must be new here lol. I’ve been banned from so many subs for factual comments and recently apparently complaining about a post on YouTube being in a foreign language and of low quality is a lifetime bannable offence.
1. Free speech needs constant defense in public spaces.
2. Free speech needs constant defense in private places that are public accommodations.
3. Free speech should never be expected on someone else's private property.

Even for those who agree with those three statements above, conflicts still arise when people don't understand the differences between the three.  Especially when #3 is a heavily trafficked, highly useful, and widely popular place.
*bad faith arguments and hostility*

It's reddit. You're not being brigaded or targeted; you are mostly interacting with people who are (willfully?) ignorant and smug about certain topics. This place has been an echo chamber for a long time and is very uniform politically.

*hate speech can be defined*

...as speech I hate. Which is why it needs to be protected. There's nothing virtuous or beneficial about protecting speech I like.
Yep, even if you spell out your rational, nuanced opinion they kneejerk react and act like you were a tower guard at Auschwitz.

Dont let it get to you, these people have IQ in the double digits and are just projecting their own personal emotional issues on to others because they dont have the strength to face them.
> The level of bad faith arguments and hostility I've received only makes it all the more strange.

Free speech is a threat to those who would want to run everything.

Demonizing the concept to make it deeply unpopular saves a lot of trouble.

Putting the defense of free speech deliberately in the hands of racists, misogynists, anti-vaxxers, stalkers and fools makes a lot of sense to achieve that end.

I'm not saying that those engaged in bad-faith arguments on reddit are deliberately pushing this line, but I am saying that the media itself is pushing it very strongly, and many people don't really think for themselves.