Title: You can vote with your wallet and attention every day by boycotting twitter, google, facebook,apple,amazon,microsoft,CNN,MSNBC ,MSM and other big tech/media/finance/pharma (including not owning their stocks) to counter their censorship,bias and corruption.

Post:
I don't think the corrupt politicians of either party will pay attention to policy concerns of We The People until We The People unite behind basic principles and become an economic force.Money talks and it can be used to make positive change in contrast to all the bad things it is also used for.

ACTION PLAN FOR IMMEDIATE CHANGE to counter the corruption , censorship and surveillance by media/tech/finance giants and politicians:

1)Cancel Cable/Satellite/Streaming TV bundles  (All channels should be made available individually so consumers don't have to give money to channels they don't want to)

2)Do Not donate money to politicians & consider boycotting companies that give them money or pay them for speeches.Some might decide to boycott Facebook,Twitter,Apple,Amazon,Microsoft, Google and Netflix for censorship or corruption issues alone.

Consider selling any shares of big tech/media/finance/pharma stocks and invest in the best pro-freedom companies you can find.

3)Bank with small local banks & invest (and bank) with a broker like Interactive Brokers whose founder/chairman Thomas Petterfy had the foresight to publicly warn about the dangers of Socialist/Authoritarian government or TZERO which was created by Overstock and founder Patrick Byrne to prevent naked short selling and enable same day trade settlement.

Buy from small local merchant stores and use cash when possible.

4)Demand IMMEDIATE pardons for Julian Assange & Edward Snowden and non-violent vaccine mandate protesters and election fraud protesters  and other whistleblowers/truthtellers

5)Join Pro freedom social networks like MINDS and Gab ,where freedom of speech and truth are respected.Follow Zero Hedge and Project Veritas for pro truth/freedom news.

6)Use web browsers like Brave or Tor rather than Chrome or Safari when you surf the web.Use search engines like Brave rather than Google or Bing for web searches.Use an email service like ProtonMail rather than Gmail.Save important online videos/articles/posts to your PC hard drive or phone.Post videos to Rumble,Odysee and Bitchute  rather than youtubeShop online at Overstock and smaller independent retailers rather than Amazon/Wayfair

7)Use Linux operating systems like Linux Mint,Debian or others on your computer rather than Windows, Mac or Chrome OS (Almost any PC can be switched to Linux).Use a degoogled Android phone or a  "dumbphone" rather than an iPhone or Google Android smartphone.Avoid buying a "smart" TV as it is smarter to buy a "dumb" TV with no operating system pre-installed.Use a Linux mini PC with wireless keyboard on your TV for web browsing/computing/gaming/video streaming rather than amazon fire tv/roku/google chromecast/apple tv/microsoft xbox/nvidia shield.

8) Do NOT support the phony "War on Drugs" which causes more crime,death,murder,gang violence,incarcerations,enriching criminals while millions of people still use illegal drugs anyway.

9) Demand accurate,fair,transparent elections in which every citizen can verify their votes were counted accurately with a receipt with a unique serial number.

10)Demand drugs like Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine be made available over the counter.Demand NO vaccine mandates.

11) Support a new foreign policy where We The People worldwide unite behind and promote the principles of truth/freedom/goodwill/integrity/humility/Non-Aggression Principle/Golden Rule and focus on winning hearts and minds.Support a worldwide effort to voluntarily help others in the hope that it will win over more people to these principles.

I wish JUST ONE famous, widely followed "conservative" media personality or politician would promote an action plan like this,which would be so easy to do.If Trump posted an action plan like this,it would have immediate impact and be so easy to do.But they won't,so I will.

Please share this action plan with others via text,email & social media if you agree.

Top Comments:
Not feasible when that group of companies have a monopoly on multiple markets.

Chrome is the most popular browser

Google is the most popular search engine

Android is the most popular mobile operating system (and if you can't afford Apple you have no other choice).

AWS, Azure and GCP have a joint monopoly on the cloud market - so even if you use competitors to Microsoft, Google and Amazon... those competitors are likely funding those three.

Are you going to boycott every business that's using Google Adsense?

Are you going to boycott every company that uses Microsoft Office or Windows?

Are you going to boycott companies that allows their employees to have Android phones, or Apple phones?

&#x200B;

This is virtually impossible - when companies get too big they need to be regulated to protect freedoms.

This is one where we need to actually vote and sign letters, and donate to think tanks that fund lobbyists to pressure government to act.
Regarding election integrity,I don’t see any better way than a system where every voter gets receipts for their votes that have a unique serial number.  
Hope that more people will start to demand fair,accurate and transparent elections in which EVERY CITIZEN CAN VERIFY THEIR VOTES WERE COUNTED ACCURATELY.  
You get a receipt for buying a pack of gum,but not for your votes?  
Does this make sense to you??  
It seems to me the solution would be a voting system that perhaps had both an electronic,blockchain vote AND a paper vote cast simultaneously in which the electronic ballots and paper ballots were counted separately to expose any discrepancies / fraud.  
Voatz system seems to be a good solution which accomplishes this which I first heard about years ago when Patrick Byrne mentioned it when he was CEO of Overstock.  
Does anyone really believe that people involved in politics and elections (or people in general) are fair,honest and unbiased and they should just be trusted “counting” votes using the current election systems ?  
Who in the world,other than corrupt,dishonest people, would be against an election system where every voter could verify their vote was counted accurately??  
Here is excerpt from Voatz website:  
“HOW VOATZ WORKS How do voters confirm that their votes are counted? Once a voter submits a ballot, three distinct records are created that allow a voter to verify their vote is recorded and counted as they intended.  
Ballot Receipt: Soon after voting, a voter receives an encrypted, anonymized receipt to verify their selections. This receipt is password protected and signed with an anonymous ID (only the voter knows this password and anonymous ID).  
Paper Ballot: A paper ballot is generated and printed at the jurisdiction for tabulation. This paper ballot is signed with the same anonymous ID, and this paper ballot constitutes the record being counted.  
Blockchain Record: All ballot selections pass through multiple, distributed nodes on a public-permissioned blockchain network. If the votes pass all checks, they are stored as a tamper-resistant record alongside all other votes.”  
“There is an additional step a voter can take to verify their vote(s). Once the election closes, the voter has the opportunity to participate in a public citizens’ audit, where all ballot receipts, paper ballots and blockchain data are compared to ensure voter intent is reflected in the overall election count. For more information about the Voatz post-election audit process, view the video on the Security & Technology page of our website.”  
https://voatz.com/how-it-works/  
https://new.voatz.com/2019/10/03/when-you-vote-how-do-you-know-it-counts/
> I wish JUST ONE famous, widely followed "conservative" media personality or politician would promote an action plan like this, which would be so easy to do.

... widely followed... promote... on gab? Nearly zero people would even hear it.
LMAO. This reminds of me when Conservatives were cancelling Disney in 1995 for offering health insurance to gay partners of employees. How long did that last? I can see Disney really suffered for it.