Title: What do you think of companies firing employees or cutting ties with partners/dealers over their racist posts on social media ?

Post:
Just read that [Harley-Davidson severs ties with dealer over Black Lives Matter post](https://auto.hindustantimes.com/auto/news/harley-davidson-severs-ties-with-dealer-over-black-lives-matter-post-41592978405376.html), a few weeks ago it was [LA Galaxy release Serbian soccer star Aleksander Katai over wife's racist social media posts](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/sports/la-galaxy-release-serbian-soccer-star-aleksander-katai-over-wife-n1226601), so on and so on, facts like that happen all the time. 

I’m interested in the opinions of the members of this community, how’s that fair and right firing someone over stating their opinion even if it’s not quite rational and is aggressive and racist ? Isn’t that violation of the freedom of speech ?

Edit: especially in cases like the second article when it’s not even your “fault” and it was your wife or any other family member for whom you’ve been fired, isn’t that something that is done in utopian reality?

Top Comments:
I don't have any problems with it. If you have an employee that's openly racist it can damage the company's reputation. It can also potentially lead to lawsuits over discrimination. Besides, there's likely some sort of code of conduct they agreed to upon by taking the job anyway. It's not that difficult to stop yourself from doing dumb shit like being racist in the public forum.
Businesses should be able to fire employees for just about any reason just like employees should be able to quit their job for just about any reason. Its a business agreement that both sides have agreed to. If the business decides that they want to fire an employee because their recent social media posts were racist, or weren't racist enough, its still their choice. 

The thing is, they have to live with that choice and the results there of.
I mean as a company you have to keep up an image and having a neo nazi ceo probably isn’t the best idea. On the other hand I think is the tweet/post was put out when they were under 18 or done like 11 something years ago I would feel sorry for them but if there was public rage then the company’s hands would kind of be tied
No one is forced into being an idiot on social media. The alternative to just keep your prejudices to yourself is always there. And if you are going to, at the very least do t have your employer tagged in your profile. Not a difficult thing to do at all.
You have a right to free speech. You don’t have a right to the consequences of that speech. 

If an employee of mine drops the N bomb on Facebook, he’s done without discussion or review. That’s got nothing to do with my feelings on the matter, it’s purely a corporate image decision. You simply have no choice unless your consumer base is overwhelmingly racist.

Not acting is akin to a corporate endorsement of the statement. You may not like that reality, but as a CEO, that’s my decision to make for my company and really none of your business.
I think companies have the right to fire them but I wish some of them would have the backbone to not. Look at Chic Fil A, when the same sex marriage comments came out and people called for boycott they more or less said "sorry you feel that way but we're gonna keep making chicken sandwiches" and went on to be what--the #2 fastfood chain in the US even tho they're still only open 6 days a week? I wish companies would grasp that this stuff always blows over and most of the people calling for a boycott probably weren't ever going to patronize them anyway. I think cancel culture could have the wind taken out of its sales if they just stood their ground and called their bluff.
Being the good libertarian that I am, I do believe that a company has every reason to fire any employee they want.  With that being said I do thinks that to many companies are kowtowing to the whims of the “woke” mob.
If one believes in a Free Market I would assume that that would extend to the labor market, and thus would mean that in a free labor market employment would be considered a mutual exchange that could be terminated by either party at any time for any reason. If one considered that exchange to be fundamental to liberty then forcing an employer to employ a person who had offensive views that could disrupt operations or inter employee relations would be unjust. Similarly, forcing an employee to work for an employer who had offensive views would also be unjust. Since individuals have the right to choose what businesses they support as well as which businesses they boycott, keeping a person such as that employee could hurt their business. They are justified. However, this does raise a question regarding the liberties of the employee and their ability to express themselves freely without reproach. While they are free to go find another job, depending on one’s skill set that’s not always an easy thing to do. So I can see how this could be viewed as an infringement by some.