Title: Whenever you bring up the subject of big tech, social media giants and the enormous bias in their censorship people love to tell you “yOu DoN’t HaVe To UsE iT” but that is completely disingenuous, these companies essentially have a monopoly on public discourse

Post:
The popular narrative whenever people complain about Big Tech’s blatant left leaning bias in who it chooses to delete, ban and silence is “it’s a private company you don’t have to use it” and implying that there are “plenty” of viable alternatives.

This is total bullshit, and everyone knows it. In 2022, if you want to be plugged in and in touch with what’s going on in the world you have no choice but to use these outlets. Networking, the dissemination of information and access to knowledge and current events is essentially confined to 2-3 apps, and they all have an enormous left leaning bias and draconian moderation, censoring anything that challenges the leftist narrative.

Reddit is particularly bad, being the ONLY anonymous traditional style message board with any amount of regular traffic and a large user base. The censorship here is out of control, and it extends beyond even just the politics - they will ban you for the most frivolous bullshit without warning, like telling someone to shut up under the guise of “harassment.” The “voting” system is total horse shit too, giving even the angry troll peons who post here the power to silence anything they don’t like (5 downvotes will hide any comment.). But if that isn’t enough the mods zap anything they don’t like under the guise of it being “off topic” while letting other similarly off topic posts slide, and will ban you with no hesitation.

Facebook is so notorious for its censorship it has birthed the term “Zucked.” It’s really fucking laughable how out of control it’s gotten.

The irony is when the tables were turned with Musk’s Twitter acquisition the wokies lost their fucking minds! Make no mistake, they are perfectly fine with echo chambers so long as they echo their idiotic beliefs. Censorship on social media needs to be dealt with.

The inevitable positive reception this post will receive confirms its legitimacy. The only place where this conversation is welcome and where anyone who disagrees with the leftist bullshit can voice their disgust is a Free Speech sub.

Top Comments:
I think for liberals there is also a psychological issue at work here: it's just about impossible to get them to see that they've become scolds and censors and prudes—don't say that! you're not allowed to use that word, write that story, think that thought! stay in your lane! Be Better!—because so much of their self-image is tied up in believing that THEY are the cool ones (by "cool" besides culturally hip I also mean tolerant, easygoing, sophisticated etc). 

They watch *Drag Race*, listen to Cardi B, have gay friends, are open to exotic cuisine—there's no possible way that they could have become puritanical opponents of free speech, free thought, freedom of expression and association—that's for Republicans and Christians and other primitives. Cmon, they're LIBERALS, it says so in the name.

So because they can't admit the truth of what they've become (and can't admit that they would ban everyone to the right of David Brooks from the internet if they could get away with it), they have to resort to all sorts of spurious arguments and defense mechanisms and say things like "it’s a private company you don’t have to use it” that no liberal would have ever said before Trump came down his golden escalator.
Social media didn't exist at one point.

We can do without it.

I'm stunned anyone but a business uses Facebook.
Twitter is a popularity contest running on petulant drama.
Instagram is women looking for rich guys with some cat videos and stupid base comments.
Reddit could be the one to make a difference but is an absolute shit show. I've been 'banned' 5 times for no legitimate reason.
And there's so many stupid pos on here it's like any other site, disturbing.

Social media is a luxury.
If they all dropped out tomorrow nobody but a business or stuff to promote would care after about a week.

It is disappointing however that they are so terribly run, and are part of a number of mechanisms that are destroying society especially with regards to what anyone can say or talk about.
Plus, the one big alternative effort to ‘not use it (Twitter, IG, etc.)’ was Parler and what did the big boys do?
Suppress it. They killed it. They even literally made it so you couldn’t download it on app stores.
When a social media platform hosts tweets from the current POTUS, it's a publisher not a private company. The reason is the precedent that Trump could not block Twitter accounts because they were official communications from the POTUS. Therefore Twitter is a publisher. Therefore Twitter cannot suppress, censor or algorithmically manipulate its content.
In the defense of Reddit, the admin censorship is much lighter that the other big tech platforms, though the mod abuse is outrageous and tolerated.

You can make an alternate sub though to spread your viewpoint.

I still think we need legislation against activist admins and mods, however.

We need to create a chilling effect on censorship by passing legislation giving users the ability to sue for viewpoint discrimination, especially good would be the ability to personally sue the person making the moderation decisions.

[https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/1384/text](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/1384/text)

Imagine if the phone company acted like big tech, we would not tolerate it, and we should not tolerate this.
This is quite obvious, and simple to understand.

Freedom of speech implies free markets and free enterprise, but as soon as you have an overwhelming oligopoly, it's not a free market anymore.

The consequence is that, paradoxically, the state must intervene to reestablish competition by breaking up monopolies (or regulating them in order to bring back freedom).

On the matter of Big Tech and free speech, the problem is made worse because it's not only a matter of economic oligopoly (or monopoly).

Google has a quasi-monopoly on search, but even if, say, engine search market share was equally divided between three competitors, this wouldn't restore freedom, because there's the ideological monopoly of wokism on top of that.

For instance, the tiny German company Tutanota (16 employees), which promotes privacy, encrypted email and lambasts the monopoly of Google and Big Tech, has just banned one of its customers because it didn't like the books it publishes (needless to say, it is a right-wing publisher).

So their politics are exactly the same as Google's -- and all the rest of the corporation-media-government blob.

I don't fully agree about Reddit. My experience so far has been mostly positive. It's more the users than the mods who annoy me. Meaning a certain subset of users, of course.

I think this largely depends on what subs you have joined. I haven't personally experienced any censorship at Reddit level. Mods at certain subs can be overbearing, but then you *can* drop those subs.
You must quit while you are ahead.  You have no chance.  The leftist narrative is supreme.  Everything right-wing is bogus.
If there is a demand the free market will find a solution. In other words: go to Truth Social and enjoy your freedom of speech.