Title: Democrats are OPENLY supporting internet legislation that would kill free speech online. Share this, we need to get the word out. 

Post:
Hillary is OPENLY supporting criminalizing online speech that doesn’t comply with centrally controlled government narratives. This is an attack on online free speech at it’s most fundamental levels. *We need to figure out how to share this story in high trafficked left wing spaces on reddit, because this issue cuts across the isle like no other.*

If you don’t understand what Section 230 is:

What is it:
Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act (1996) provides immunity to online platforms from being held liable for user-generated content. It allows platforms to moderate content without being treated as the "publisher" of that content.

Why is it important:
It safeguards free speech by allowing platforms to host a wide variety of user-generated content without fear of overwhelming legal liabilities. Without it, platforms might overly censor or block controversial content to avoid lawsuits, stifling diverse opinions and innovation in digital communication.

Negative impact of repealing Section 230:
Repealing it could lead to the shutdown of smaller platforms that can’t afford legal risks, while large companies may implement strict censorship. This would drastically reduce the diversity of online discourse, harming free speech and innovation.

Top Comments:
I wonder who she means when she says “we lose total control”.  The democrats? The federal government? It can’t be all of America because free speech is what provides the citizens control, or rather freedom from control.
What’s interesting about this post is that [Trump also wants to repeal Section 230.](https://www.cfr.org/in-brief/trump-and-section-230-what-know) 

I only mention it because OP cited Hillary.
> If you don’t understand what Section 230 is:

https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF12584

> *some have predicted, based on pre-Section-230 caselaw,
that providers might attempt to avoid liability by stopping
all content moderation*

Section 230 is more complicated than "it protects free speech" - it's not speech that is protected, but the moderators of that speech.
Companies should adhere to the first amendment in my opinion. Even though I think that first amendment isn't really free speech it is the closest to that that there is.
By "Democrats" you mean "a Democrat". 

Hilary Clinton is currently a private citizen and not representative of the entire Democratic Party, as your title is implying.

There have also been Republicans who have advocated for the repeal of Section 230, including Lindsay Graham who IS an active member of Congress, who sponsored a bill to repeal S230 -- https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/2972#:~:text=Introduced%20in%20Senate%20(10%2F07,screening%20or%20blocking%20objectionable%20content.

Repealing 230 would be disastrous for online free speech, but of course there are members of both parties that either don't understand this or don't care.
This has been posted already on this subreddit today, so I want to post the same answer to see if interesting discussion will follow:

I want to give benefit of the doubt here and create a steelman position for our discussions.

First, from the context of the interview, she misspoken, and she meant “totally lose control”, since they do not have “total control”.

And if you watch the whole video, the question she rises is if the social media companies (like Twitter, TikTok) should have some degree of responsibility for the content.

The logic is twofold:

1.	⁠If something is unlawful and is propagated on those platforms (example she give is child porn) then why they should be shielded?
2.	⁠Those companies while do not create content, they do amplify it. And since you have millions of users, it is possible to find content on any topic with any position, the decision to amplify one content vs. another is probably more powerful than the content creation itself. So, why those companies should be shielded from responsibility when they participate in amplification of certain content? If they amplify unlawful content, should not they share responsibility?