Title: The problem with Big Tech companies being treated as individuals

Post:
Sorry in advance for the rant

Recently with the debate over Big Tech censorship I wanted to pick the brains of those on this subreddit. It's a common statement in Libertarian circles that private companies such as Twitter and Facebook are not required to abide by First Amendment protections because they are private companies and can do what they want. However, as Libertarians our focus is on maximizing the freedoms of the individual and limit government intrusion on our lives. The primary reason I am not an Anarchist is because I want the government to protect my rights (because my pigs can only eat so many bodies). Doesn't it increase freedom to have the government stop companies from violating our freedom of speech?

 Personally I don't think Twitter should have the same freedoms as an individual citizen, so it should be prevented from limiting the first amendment rights of its users. I would rather see Twitter regulated to protect my individual liberties than see a free market oligopoly on social media. 

Tl;Dr Social Media companies do not deserve individual liberties and should not be allowed to do whatever they want to private citizens.

Top Comments:
1st amendment? LMFAO. The constitution is between the people and the government. Also your tldr is disingenuous. Tech companies can't do whatever they want because the individual consents to the service/product.
No one is limiting freedom of speech.  The internet makes it incredibly easy to go plug in a server and let people visit your page.

Parler wanted to use someone else’s code and servers but not follow their rules.   Nothing stopped Parler from buying a bunch of servers and writing their own code.   They simply lacked the talent, for obvious reasons.

No one stops you from making a Twitter clone.

I don’t have Twitter but I do have a paid YouTube subscription.  I was one of many millions of customers who demanded they de monetize Nazis and their ilk.  It was a business decision to respond to us.
It encroaches on our property rights.

A companies reputation and image is legally its owners intangible property.

If they can be forced by government intervention to do things that they feel endanger their property then technically we will have undermined property rights.

On the other hand FB or Twitter banning me doesn’t stop me running my own blog to get my views out in public.
Social media would literally be destroyed if these companies couldn't have a TOS. Every single unmoderated platform ends up being filled with hateful shit. Minorities (especially trans people) always end up getting brigaded and harassed off the platform. Or people start spamming porn in people's replies. It never goes well.
Lets say you own a nice piece of land in NYC.  You develop this land into a public space with a nice PA system.  You allow people to come and give speeches on this land, using your public address system.  You make money by advertising on your land and by allowing vendors to sell stuff while giving you a cut.

A group of Nazis decide to use the free gathering space to do speeches and recruit--you allow it because you're big on free speech.  Then you find out they are planning murders using your gathering space.

So, are you allowed to kick these guys off your property?  Can you at least turn off the PA system you designed, installed, and pay for?  For that matter, shouldn't you be able to say no to anyone you want, even that sweet church group?

Free speech means an individual can say what he wants without fear of government reprisal.  It doesn't mean you have to hand them a megaphone.
I value the rights of a private company that you're not required to use over how people feel about what they do. To sit there and say they're too big and they somehow control free speech or narratives is ludicrous, and you even see this same argument getting shot down all the time even in government. 

Its not even treating them as a private citizen at all, it's literally just the rights of a private business to run itself how it chooses. They shouldn't be forced to provide a platform for views they dont want on the platform they provide, FOR FREE.

The solution as always for people like you is to force government intervention into it and make them control the company, which has always worked so well in the past. I personally dont enjoy the idea of partisan politics controlling how much I'm allowed to say and do on the internet or social media. I'd rather just have the option to stop using platforms I like.
If the government is able to compel them to bend to your whims the government can compel you to bend to theirs. This is how cronyism starts. You give the government special authority and the companies buy congressmen and congresswomen so they can stack the deck in their favor. The company will always end up with more preferential treatment and be just one degree away from an institution with authority over your life.
I want to force a company that provides me with a free service to do what I tell them to is not the Libertarian take you think it is.
People who are unable to comply with the terms and conditions of social media companies or web hosts are free to plug their own servers into the internet and invite anyone they like to observe or participate in whatever application or content you want to put on there.    
Problem solved.
OP you are just a sad sad cry baby looking for a safe place  echo chamber. You are not being silenced.