Title: Female comedian attempts to silence heckler by having a meltdown on stage and screaming at him, very emblematic of the left’s culture of censorship and assaulting their opponents rather than debating them

Post:
Natalie Cuomo, famously unfunny standup who has very mediocre crowd work and is only popular for her appearance went off the rails when heckled.

She attempted to take a cheap shot and make a gay joke about a male audience member who threw it back at her, and alluded to her pretty privilege and lack of material. She then completely folded and had a meltdown on stage, screaming at him to try to censor him and deflect from his valid point. Of course, as pretty privilege does her army of simps and yaaaassslighters in the audience cheered her on unanimously. The internet (real world) reaction was obviously the opposite.

It’s deep insecurity and weakness projected, but first and foremost it’s reflective of the left’s culture of trying to silence or shame their opponents rather than debate them nobly. I have never felt so much secondhand embarrassment, and to make matters worse she then posted it to her own social media accounts for validation, pathetic. Of course she was unanimously dragged along with her handful of supporters. I’m glad the world is waking up.

https://youtube.com/shorts/VhGy6SrbmSk?si=Oik2PpiBkIcue6Os

Top Comments:
I don’t think this counts as censorship or a free speech issue at all. I also think it’s kind of silly to act like this is emblematic of wanting to shame instead of debating ppl since it’s not at all a context where debate is merited as the appropriate response. If some random person on the street says my face looks ugly I don’t have to then debate with them about the aesthetics of my visage or if that’s something they should say, it’s okay to just tell them they’re being rude and a buzzkill . Likewise if someone is at a private event and ppl don’t like the energy they’re bringing (even if you genuinely believe it would better for them to be heard out) it’s not a free speech issue if ppl want to let them talk or tell them to leave. 
She wasn’t heckled. She engaged with an audience member while doing crowd work. The guy in the audience matched her energy and she lost her shit. He was kicked out. 

A couple of points here: 

1) from her own IG, she has weak crowd work skills. 

2) don’t ever give over the mic. By reading the text he sent his friend, she basically gave over the mic, and what’s worse is that his level headed text made her precious melt down look even worse in comparison.
I see this behavior all the time.  I guess they think if they get louder and more vulgar it somehow makes them correct.

In reality they just look foolish.
Doesn't seem like a good example if the guy actually predicted he would be unable to enjoy the show and be ejected for being disruptive. The crowd wasn't upset to see him leave.
This isn’t a left comedy problem. It’s a social media comedy problem caused by lazy hack comics that can’t write decent material try to drive social media engagement with half-assed crowd work. Check out the standup sub for constant complaints about this very topic. 

This is an incel ass post.
Why is everything about the imaginary, nebulous LeFt on this sub? What broke all your brains? It's like TDS but instead Left Derangement Syndrome.
This video really doesn’t show the full story. It looked to me like the dude was interrupting her set, but I need to see more.
how is this a free speech issue rather than just an individual with poor crowd work skills? Seems a reach to me. Also I'm a trans person who is debating you, so your sample size of the "woke left" now includes one who is willing to have a discussion lol.