Title: Today, despite free speech and the mass media, the prevailing social vision is dangerously close to sealing itself off from any discordant feedback from reality. - Thomas Sowell

Post:


Top Comments:
More than he knows. Plenty of these people adore Marxism, or unwittingly worship one of its descendants, not knowing or caring about its intellectual lineage.
I grew up in cult. Not large, 75-80 people. 
Insane, brutal and perverse things were done and allowed to be done for years. Parents subjecting their children to mental and emotional torture, people showing themselves to harmed and shamed, again and again. 

This was all made possible because the people involved gave up their reason, their logic, their independence in exchange for the status inside the group. 

In a group that small, totally voluntary attendance, the power of praise and acceptance, the fear of rejection, was strong enough to motivate them ignore the suffering of their own children, to hold their heads forward and make them watch animal sacrifices, to destroy their marriages on command.

...80 people..

Imagine the possibilities when your talking about millions of people, media attention, the compulsion of the federal gov, real threats to safety from uniformed officers with guns. 

I'm not saying we're in soviet Russia or nazi Germany..yet.
But I'm watching seemingly rational people repeating things I know they don't believe for reasons they can't even articulate past one or two critical questions. But they have faith they're part of good guys, and to their ends, every means is justified. 

From what I've read about human history, from my experiences growing up,  there is basically no bottom to the potential danger in the social phenomenon we're watching.
There is some merit to this statement. The Soviet model of education was well received here in the USA.

If any resistance is to be will be through the individual academic and/or the students themselves through their own personal rational and critical thinking.

It happens, I did it. But I have to tell you, I would not last in college now. I'm far to woke for these young idiots who think they know what wokeness is. I woke up and seen the reality around me a long goddamn time ago.
Ah, don't you love those things that people say. The ones that they do, 100%, in real life, actually say to real people people and genuinely believe. Yessiree, nothing to see here except stuff that actually happened.
Answer….no, no they don’t. They think if a waiter got their avocado toast well done instead of medium well they are a literal reincarnation of hitler
You all eating this up have obviously never been to a university in the US. These critiques would be much more fitting to grade school in the US than to the universities. There are much fewer restrictions or standardizations to curriculum in universities compared to grade school in the US. Not to mention that universities often receive backlash and protests from students when they aggrieve those students, and that kind of dissidence is almost unheard of in a grade school. Grade school gives students a standardized version of reality approved by the state, has mandatory ideas that all the students must be taught, minimizes students' ability to express themselves or question the institution, and has them commit their allegiance to the state every day like they're in some kind of dystopia.