Title: How long before the general public gets completely fed up with Big Tech’s draconian censorship and stranglehold on public discourse? 

Post:

Whenever you bring up the subject of big tech, social media giants and the enormous bias in their censorship people love to tell you “yOu DoN’t HaVe To UsE iT” but that is completely disingenuous, these companies essentially have a monopoly on public discourse.

The popular narrative whenever people complain about Big Tech’s blatant left leaning bias in who it chooses to delete, ban and silence is “it’s a private company you don’t have to use it” and implying that there are “plenty” of viable alternatives.

This is total bullshit, and everyone knows it. In 2024, if you want to be plugged in and in touch with what’s going on in the world you have no choice but to use these outlets. Networking, the dissemination of information and access to knowledge and current events is essentially confined to 2-3 apps, and they all have an enormous left leaning bias and draconian moderation, censoring anything that challenges the leftist narrative.

Reddit is particularly bad, being the ONLY anonymous traditional style message board with any amount of regular traffic and a large user base. The censorship here is out of control, and it extends beyond even just the politics - they will ban you for the most frivolous bullshit without warning, like telling someone to shut up under the guise of “harassment.” The “voting” system is total horse shit too, giving even the angry troll peons who post here the power to silence anything they don’t like (5 downvotes will hide any comment.). But if that isn’t enough the mods zap anything they don’t like under the guise of it being “off topic” while letting other similarly off topic posts slide, and will ban you with no hesitation.

Facebook is so notorious for its censorship it has birthed the term “Zucked.” It’s really fucking laughable how out of control it’s gotten.

The irony is when the tables were turned with Musk’s Twitter acquisition the wokies lost their fucking minds! Make no mistake, they are perfectly fine with echo chambers so long as they echo their idiotic beliefs. Censorship on social media needs to be dealt with.

The inevitable positive reception this post will receive confirms its legitimacy. The only place where this conversation is welcome and where anyone who disagrees with the leftist bullshit can voice their disgust is a Free Speech sub.

Top Comments:
I am old enough to remember a time before social media was even a thing.  We would just use email and chat rooms (+ forums) to communicate, which was pretty much the wild wild west, save for spam filters.

Before that, I guess people would just go to bars and argue about politics/ sports / etc there -- provided they don't get so obnoxious that the bar tender would kick them out.

Maybe the solution is to bring those old technologies back (I guess Discord counts as chat), or some version of that.
As long as social media can still provide those sweet, sweet dopamine hits from receiving all the views and likes, greater society will never hold them accountable. 

Now quick: upvote my comment for the sweet, sweet dopamine hit.
I thought Elon Musk fixed this? What's the problem? Do you need \*every\* social media platform to reflect your personal viewpoint before you'll be happy? By government mandate?
What do you want, a government takeover?

What would address your complaints that does not also enforce bias?

What biases are we allowed to maintain?  
Do we need to give pedophiles equal consideration?  
Do we need to listen to Flat Earthers?  
Do we need to tune in for comments from a known liar?  
Do we need to teach the controversy about evolution?

At what point can we dispense with Fairness Bias so people can know their views are as unpopular as they are?
There are a few factors that will work towards things turning out the way they are now as long as they're unchanged.

1. Young people are a lot further left than average.

2. Most advertisers want to market to a young audience more than anyone else.

3. There aren't any good business models for running a social media website that don't depend on making most of your money from advertisements.

As long as those things are true, any website is going to have to choose between excluding certain content and succeeding as a business.

I'm not saying that websites *never* make bad decisions, just like any organization makes mistakes. But at the core, they're rational actors responding to the environment they're in.
The coNvid proved that the sheep will put up with anything. So this is probably just the start of even worse to come.
>The “voting” system is total horse shit too,

>The inevitable positive reception this post will receive confirms its legitimacy.

I think all this confirms is that an echo chamber can exist even in a free speech sub. It only confirms that you speak to the biases of the sub. It doesn't show necessarily that your claims are correct, only that they are well received. Proving something correct or incorrect takes far more than this.

>The only place where this conversation is welcome and where anyone who disagrees with the leftist bullshit can voice their disgust is a Free Speech sub.

I mean this is just not true. There's /r/Conservative, /r/Conspiracy, /r/AHomeForPlagueRats, even /r/GenUSA shits on lefties all the time, though it's not exactly free speech there either you'll get modded for not agreeing with prevailing narratives. There's a whole list of others in the sub description. What I want to know is where the *sane* conservative conversation is. Maybe /r/Christianity ?
>If you want to be plugged in and in touch with what’s going on in the world you have no choice but to use these outlets. 


There's endless outlets for every taste.   I am not prevented from reading anything and then talking about it on a *free* blog, a free subreddit, an email, a letter or even my own book on Amazon.  The comment sections of Reddit only have crude tools and meaningless arrows to maintain some degree of civility and flow.  


Freedom of Association is a Right.  If I go to a sports bar for a favourite team, i don't get to be mad because I get kicked out for dressing up for the opponent and talking trash. There is no right to a comment section for ever webpage.  There's more opportunity for free expression today than at any time in history.  *Why would I think my comment among billions of comments is important anyways?*. If I can't find *someone* to talk to online, the problem is *me*.