Title: I want to know your opinions on free speech, private property rights, and consumer rights.

Post:
I watched a video of a woman holding up a sign in a private venue. The signs messaging was evidently disagreeable to some and she was confronted by a few individuals. The video garnered a lot of online attention and a few users advocated for her removal from the private venue. I believe this video is a few years old and heard from others that she was indeed removed. The woman did not commit any violent actions and was only exercising her freedom of speech.

I understand that the owners of the private venue possess the right to association and the right to private property. Which means they have the right to evict any and all Individuals from the venue regardless of the reason.

But how does this interact with consumer rights? Because in order to enter the venue, you need to pay for a ticket. Does that mean the venue owner is compelled to allow her entry because the ticket is in effect a symbol of consent? Unless purchasing a ticket comes with a contract stating, removal or being barred from the venue can be done for any reason and signing this contract will not make the venue owner liable. I understand being kicked out if she broke the terms of the contract or if she broke the law. But generally speaking, in a mutual exchange, both party’s must fall through with their side of the deal.

What are your opinions on social media companies having the right censure speech? Should they have the right to censor speech? Even if you have the right to do something, should you do it? I don’t particularly like social media companies censoring my speech even if they have the right to do it.


Top Comments:
**New to libertarianism or have questions and want to learn more?** Be sure to check out [the sub Frequently Asked Questions](/r/Libertarian/wiki/faq) and [the massive /r/libertarian information WIKI] (/r/Libertarian/wiki/index) from the sidebar, for lots of info and free resources, links, books, videos, and answers to common questions and topics. Want to know if you are a Libertarian?  [Take the worlds shortest political quiz and find out!](http://www.theadvocates.org/)

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Libertarian) if you have any questions or concerns.*
You have the right to buy a ticket to the venue. You have a right to run your mouth and say whatever stupid shit you want, as long as it doesn't call for violence against others. They have the right to boot your ass out. You have the right to not spend your money there anymore. I am 💯 free speech, but free speech doesn't mean free from consequences. The consequence being getting booted from the venue by the owners. The consequence of you getting booted is you don't have to spend your money at that venue anymore.
Can I walk into your kitchen and start spewing whatever vile diatribe you find most disturbing, disgusting, and objectionable?

Of course not.  Because my right to free speech does not extend to or exist in your private property.  Furthermore, you are under NO obligation to provide me a platform from which to spew my diatribes.

Social media platforms are no different.  Just because they allow you in doesn’t mean they aren’t private, or that they can’t put limits on what they decide to allow you to do on their platform.  You also agree to abide by these terms when you sign up.

Your right as a consumer is to either agree or disagree with those terms.  If you agree, you can use the platform.  If you don’t, you don’t get in or if you violate them you get booted.

Social media companies should absolutely be allowed to do this, and to censor speech that violates their terms.  This isn’t them violating your freedom of speech, it’s them exercising their freedom of association- and they choose not to associate with you.

You of course, have to right to go elsewhere or even create your own platform so that you can exercise your own rights to associate and speak freely.

This really comes down to positive versus negative rights.  The moment you think someone is obligated to provide you with something as a right, there’s going to be conflict.
I really dislike it when people say "free speech doesn't mean you're not free from consequences" because that's literally what it is. 

If it wasn't that then you could very well argue that the police arresting you and a judge sending you off to prison is just a consequence of your actions and you should have known better.

Pretty obviously this would be a violation of your rights, and people usually just cop out and say that this only applies to the government.

Why should it? Why should we only stop the government from infringing on our rights? Aren't we primarily concerned with maintaining our liberties in general? Why should it matter who is doing the oppression, our rights are at stake here!
There's an argument to be made that threats are protected under free speech, and rather than warranting criminal charges, would warrant criminal *investigation* instead. I'm not a Libertarian, but they are just words and fall under the category of non-violent, and I feel like we've been stretching the criteria of threats to include "veiled messaging" or "violent rhetoric" or "stochastic terrorism" saying things like "Free Palestine from the river to the sea" over on the left-wing, or "take your country back!" on the right-wing. There's also the requirement of a victim, as nowadays, most recipients of threats just get excited at the opportunity to hit the Report button or get someone they don't like arrested, and don't *actually* feel intimidated.
Except there are consequences for it. You use your free speech and piss someone off and they punch you in the face, while they are wrong to do that, it is a consequence of you using your speech. It's the same for anything else you do, you have to face the consequences of your actions.
Sorry, I wasn’t trying to be rude.  Just trying to lay out my thoughts from the beginning of your example scenario to what I think is the crux of the matter.  My apologies.
Do you think then that we should be minimizing these consequences throught the use of the law? Physical violence is something that we want to avoid, right?