Title: Lots of questions for U.S. political Libertarians from a novice.

Post:
UPDATE: I haven't gone anywhere,  I will be responding to each post soon (got swamped with work). Lots to read and lots of questions to write. Thank you. 


[I apologize in advanced for the long post, trying to educate myself here. There will be a lot of questions, so any responses no matter how minimal are appreciated.\ 

Hello, 
 
In recent months I've realized (or begun to care) that my political awareness is incredibly low (like most people my age, in my twenties). 
 
As such, I've been attempting to start to dig and truly figure out what candidate I would want to vote for, and this has lead to me to a search to figure out what party I would generally identify myself as, if the need arose. I also took the viral isidewith.com quiz, which came up with some interesting results (some of which lead to the questions I have now). I have recently looked into Libertarianism which lead to  a lot of the questions I have. 
 
So some disclaimers: 
-I acknowledge that I am a political novice, so some of what I ask may seem uninformed. 
-I understand that Libertarianism is not just a political ideology but also a philosophical idea, so this is more directly concerned with the Libertarian party. 
-I'm not naive enough to think that one party, be it Libertarian or otherwise, would completely line up with my views 100%. This is more for the sake of discussion and to figure out potential candidates that I would vote for come voting day.  
-I'm also aware that an online quiz is not the holy grail of politics. I'm only referring to it because this is the closest I have to an official opinion regarding some candidates. I don't expect the quiz to be entirely correct on each Party's views. 
-I'm a college student surrounded by liberals and liberal mentality. So many of my views would probably be left-leaning based on my limited experience in politics. Just a fair warning. That being said, I've had to luck to also be surrounded by conservatives in my daily life outside of any college settings (not that conservatives don't exist in schools). What I mean by "luck" is that I've seen both views from both sides of the extreme, so I've had exposure to numerous different view points. 
-To me, the most important topics of today are personal freedoms, privacy, and education. 

 
But I'll start here: 
 
As I understand it, Libertarian's believe that almost any government involvement in economics, including regulation, taxation, subsidizing, tariffs, etc. all have a negative impact on the economy. 
So the first of my questions, then, is how does a Libertarian think that businesses would be able to survive in the long term, without preventing monopolies and having larger, already established businesses squishing any and all competition? It seems that the view is that monopolies wouldn't exist without the large presence of government as it already is, but I have a hard time believing that a company would be unable to gain control of an industry if left unchecked. 
 
Further, if Libertarians think that welfare programs also have a negative impact on the general populace, then how are those who the programs are designed for (not those that take advantage of them) expected to be able to survive in a Libertarian economy? As I understand it, a Libertarian would want to remove any welfare programs and remove government funding of institutions such as Planned Parenthood, which provide aid and services to those who are otherwise unable to obtain them. So if that is the case, is a Libertarian view toward these people truly a "screw them", or "not with my money" mentality? Again, I'm referring to those people who need aid or services that would not be able to obtain them at the time they are needed, not those people who take advantage of these programs. The same applies to other subsidies, such as to specific industries that promote greener alternatives. Would stricter criteria rather than complete liquidation not be a preferable choice for these programs/institutions? The mentality of leaving those people who truly do need help alone does not sit right with me. 
 
In a similar vein, are pensions something that Libertarians are entirely against, as far as the public sector goes? Given the extreme amount of people who are retiring and receiving paychecks, it all seems like an alternate form of welfare, assuming we're talking about public employees. As someone who might end up in a public position someday soon, I am not decided on this. Pension spending does seem to be out of control, so are there truly no alternatives for a Libertarian? Is the idea that "if you're retired, you're on your own"? 

Would a Libertarian want to totally dismantle minimum wage standards? I myself am not entirely decided on this. I could understand wanting one's job to provide a livable income. On the other hand, by creating a scenario that the easiest of jobs provide livable wages, you also create a formula for laziness. Why do much of anything with your life if Burger King hamburgers pay for what you want? I think this would just start a downward spiral. I suppose it depends on whether or not a person has no other methods of obtaining income other than the jobs they are stuck in. 
 
If all taxation is viewed as largely negative, then how do Libertarians propose that police, emergency services, infrastructure, and any education high school and below be funded? As a taxpayer, I don't mind having my taxes go towards these things. While I am also largely for much more reduced spending of these funds, because it seems that tax rates increase to go toward irrelevant items, although I suppose the definition of "irrelevant" depends on the person. 

As I understand it, most Libertarians are anti-police, in the sense that Police should only exist to protect life and basic rights. But judging from what I've seen on this sub, it seems that many Libertarians are ENTIRELY anti-police. I'm in a field where I work closely with Police officers, and have never had an issue with over aggressiveness. Even beyond personal experiences, Police in my area have not had a reputation for brutality or "abuse of power". Would most Libertarians claim that, in my case and the officers in my area, it is simply a matter of time before rights are infringed upon by police officers? I understand the call for demilitarization of police, but the larger-police sentiment in this sub is overwhelming. I am not involved in law or police, but frequently work with them, so I consider many of them to be on the same team. My area is however a quiet suburban neighborhood, so this might create bias (aka, my bubble-neighborhood may not reflect what I would experience elsewhere). 

Because I value privacy to be one of the most important issues of today, it would seem that I would agree with most Libertarians. One question I have though is regarding internet equality. Specifically, if  Libertarian is for zero government involvement in business, that wouldn't a Libertarian say that if an internet service provider wanted to prioritize or slow down traffic for certain websites, then it is their right to do so? As far as I'm concerned, I've always viewed the internet as essentially another form of communication and business tool, and that any limiting of the internet, be at speed or censorship, might as well be another form of oppression. While I think I would agree with Libertarians on censorship, the "typical" Libertarian view on free market would contradict this.  

I believe that the right to own guns should not be taken away from us. But to me, background checks, psychological screening, and training are not exactly bad. So long as a person is deemed capable of handling a gun, then he or she should be allowed to do what they want. This seems to contradict the Libertarian view, which would be that any type of gun control would infringe on their rights. 

I tend to think that corporations generally shouldn't be allowed to fund campaigns. A corporation-backed candidate would have the advantage in any campaign when compared to smaller, independent candidates. I believe this exacerbates the problem of a two-party system that is currently in place. Unless fueled by money, a candidate has no chance of surviving against the competition. But if a Libertarian is anti-regulation, then wouldn’t a corporation, or any organization, be allowed to do as it pleases, rendering smaller candidates ineligible to compete? the sentiment in this sub tends to be that no candidate that has "Libertarian" interests in mind would ever be able to gain any momentum, contradicting the desire for less regulation. 

Wouldn't agreements like the TPP be beneficial? By reducing trade barriers, wouldn’t businesses be able to have more freedom in their decisions, which would be exactly what a Libertarian would want? The quiz I took mentions that Libertarians would be against the agreement... 

What are your views on the "no-fly" list debacle? 

If Libertarians want to protect freedom, wouldn't this include people of all religions, sexual orientation, or race? The reason I ask is because this would contradict the anti-regulation sentiment. If a business is allowed to deny service to a person for one of the above reasons, aren't their rights being violated? Even if they aren't being violated based on that service alone, wouldn't the ability to do this eventually lead to groups of people being shunned or outcast, thereby violating their rights? 

Most Libertarians would be for allowing immigrants into the country and creating a path to citizenship for them, right? How does this view affect the recent refugee debate? I've seen little on this sub to determine whether or not a Libertarian would be for allowing  Syria refugees into the country. Given my tendency to not want to leave people to fend for themselves, I'm for letting refugees in. 

When I look up Libertarian policies, the one the contradicts the most is the stance an abortion. If people have the right do as they please, then who's rights trump the other, the fetus or the mother? I myself do not necessarily support abortion, but also don’t think it's my right to deny a woman that right. 

I am pro-gay rights and gay marriage, and can't really pinpoint a "common" Libertarian sentiment on the topic though. 

One of my biggest concerns for the future is education. I am of the opinion that with a basic education, future generations will be able to obviously create more informed thoughts, decisions, and figure out better future for themselves. When I say basic education, I mean understandings of Math, Science, History, Personal Finance, Sex Ed, Reading, Writing, Health, and Current Events. If a student had these tools upon leaving high school, then her os she could make an informed decision as to their future (or whether or not they want a higher education or pursue trade school). Wouldn't a national standard aid in this goal? The quiz notes the Libertarians would be anti-national standard. 

I can't really make an informed decision regarding student loans. If the current idea is to tax the rich more to pay for a higher education and make it free. Which is a noble goal, but taxing this rich (to Libertarians I'm sure) would be a direct violation of rights. I do believe that part of the problem is that college is a part of this and future generations' culture. I know plenty of people that go to college for the sake of the degree, major in something that shouldn't be a major at all, and then don’t have a job and are sinking in debt. If commuting, going to community colleges, and trade schools didn’t have such a terrible reputation then things wouldn’t be so bad. And if majors in colleges were actually useful, then students wouldn’t get duped into paying for something worthless. 

Other views I hold, that would contradict a Libertarian's, are that vaccinations should be required (I believe you're putting others in danger by not doing so), that I do not support the death penalty, that although I'm religious, God shouldnt be a part of the government's operations, and that the environment is something that the government should strive to protect. 

As you can no doubt tell, Im a very ill informed on the details of Obamacare, Foreign Policy, and other broader topics. I am trying to fix that though. 

Now, on candidates, I'm surprised at the anti-Bernie sentiment in this sub. Isn't Bernie pro privacy, pro personal rights, and pro gay rights, and generally someone seen that would protect individual liberties? Wouldn't that be in line with Libertarian principles, from a social standpoint? Is the hate solely because, from an economic standpoint, he would tax the rich, fund welfare programs, and aim to help students? By own views mentioned above might explain my general agreement with Bernie.  

Rand Paul has apparently also stated that he doesn't even consider himself Libertarian. So why the love for him in this sub? His views seem to be like a basic conservatives, minus the racism. He is also pro-privacy (as evidenced by today's posts), but doesn't seem to be as much for individual liberty as Bernie does. So, as I asked before, is it just the economics? Is that what makes Rand Paul that much of a better candidate than Bernie? What about an actual Libertarian Candidate? 

So it seems that I agree with Libertarians on freedom and rights, but not necessarily on economics. So perhaps I could be considered a Green-Libertarian, something I have also begun to look into (although I have very little knowledge of that yet). As I understand it, Libertarians are for starting everyone on common ground, but then leaving them to their own devices afterword, regardless of whether or not they need help. I don't know if I support leaving those who need help alone. The quiz results showed that out of all the parties, I agree the most with the Greens, so I'll be looking into that next. Again, I know that the quiz could very well be wrong on many of the different parties views, so I'm using that as the most basic of references until I gain more knowledge. 

Top Comments:
> One question I have though is regarding internet equality. Specifically, if Libertarian is for zero government involvement in business, that wouldn't a Libertarian say that if an internet service provider wanted to prioritize or slow down traffic for certain websites, then it is their right to do so? 

Yes, generally (if they *should* is another issue, of course). Though we would also say that the reason there is no competition between ISPs is because of government regulation. In areas where ISPs actually compete with each other, their service generally tends to be quite good.

>any limiting of the internet, be at speed or censorship, might as well be another form of oppression. 

Someone inconveniencing you is not oppression. When the ISPs start shooting people in the streets for uploading the wrong YouTube video, you can call it oppression. 

> I believe that the right to own guns should not be taken away from us. But to me, background checks, psychological screening, and training are not exactly bad. 

So, you're okay leaving the decision of if you have that right to a government bureaucrat that, I promise, does not let their own political or personal views influence their decisions at all?

Would you be okay with a government bureaucrat pre-screening and approving your reddit posts? You know, just to make sure they aren't terrorism. Make sure you fill out the paperwork right and everything will be fine, I promise.

> I tend to think that corporations generally shouldn't be allowed to fund campaigns. 

Corporations are run by people, why can't I run my company the way I want, including supporting whomever I'd like?

And what actually constitutes "funding campaigns"? Can I put a pro-Rand-Paul logo on my website? In the lunch room? Can I show up on TV and say I'm voting for Rand? Can I put up a YouTube video talking about how I like Rand's policies? A TV ad?

Do you want to live in a country where a CEO posts a nice video of how Rand's policies will impact their business, and then gets thrown in jail for illegally contributing to his campaign? 

> A corporation-backed candidate would have the advantage in any campaign when compared to smaller, independent candidates. 

Historically, this is not true. The overwhelmingly vast majority of elected officials are not backed by *any* corporation, let alone large ones.

The reason presidents, senators, and representatives are often supported by corporations is--surprise surprise--they want the politicians to pass laws that harm their competition (remember the only way monopolies can exist?). Libertarians say that legislation like that should not be passed, and, consequently, corporations will have no incentive to attempt to influence elections.

> What are your views on the "no-fly" list debacle?

No due process; if it's not illegal, it's immoral.

> If a business is allowed to deny service to a person for one of the above reasons, aren't their rights being violated? 

As a guy who's not straight, let me tell you: I don't want anti-gay people making my wedding cake. I want them to voluntarily put a big huge sign in front of their store that says "NO GAYS" so I know not to accidentally give them my money. *Forcing them to serve me is absolutely unethical.*

> Even if they aren't being violated based on that service alone, wouldn't the ability to do this eventually lead to groups of people being shunned or outcast, thereby violating their rights?

No.

> Most Libertarians would be for allowing immigrants into the country and creating a path to citizenship for them, right?

We already have this, it's called "legal immigration." It's hideously dysfunctional, like all government programs, but it exists and does not need to be "created."

> I've seen little on this sub to determine whether or not a Libertarian would be for allowing Syria refugees into the country. 

Because libertarianism is not a cures-all-the-world's-evil-with-this-one-weird-trick philosophy.

Some problems are hard, sorry.

> I am pro-gay rights and gay marriage, and can't really pinpoint a "common" Libertarian sentiment on the topic though.

Historically libertarians have been ridiculously pro-gay rights and gay-marriage (well, and anti-government-being-involved-in-marriage, but that's another story).

> I am of the opinion that with a basic education, future generations will be able to obviously create more informed thoughts, decisions, and figure out better future for themselves. 

You're young and naive, we get it.

> Wouldn't a national standard aid in this goal? 

No, absolutely not. Teachers are supposed to be subject matter experts. Why the hell should a bureaucrat who knows nothing about a subject be telling an expert how and what to teach?

> I can't really make an informed decision regarding student loans. 

They're a huge clusterfuck caused by massive government distortions of both the higher education and student loan markets.

> If the current idea is to tax the rich more to pay for a higher education and make it free. Which is a noble goal, but taxing this rich (to Libertarians I'm sure) would be a direct violation of rights. 

And, more importantly, wouldn't solve the problem. The market distortions were caused by government intervention--throwing even more money at it will only make it worse!

> Other views I hold, that would contradict a Libertarian's, are that vaccinations should be required (I believe you're putting others in danger by not doing so)

Look--"required" means, to the government, "we will send people with guns to your house and force you to, and kill you if you resist." Are you okay with enforcing vaccination in this manner?

Sure, the government may start with nice letters, but eventually CPS and the Swat team show up at your house, take your kid, and vaccinate him against your will. And then, oops, it turns your kid was allergic to the vaccine just like you've been telling them for the past 15 months, but the bureaucrat (who can't be fired and has legal immunity) fucked up your exemption paperwork and now your kid is dead.

OTOH, if a *private school* had a *policy* that kids needed to be vaccinated--no child murder. 

I'm sure you think I'm being extreme, so here's an example: the media has recently claimed that 307,000 veterans have died while waiting for care since 1998. If that were true, that would be ~1,500 dead/mo. Or, to be dramatic, one 9/11 worth of dead every other month. That's a lot of people. The VA disputes this on the grounds that, and I quote: "[the database is] unreliable for monitoring timeliness or determine if a record represents a veteran’s intent to apply for VA health care." Their defense is that they are too incompetent to even attempt to keep track of if people are even seeking care. Consequently, they can't even tell us what the real number is.

Do you want those people to be responsible for safely vaccinating your child? I sure as hell don't!

> I do not support the death penalty

AFAIK most libertarians don't. Some do, though.

> As you can no doubt tell, Im a very ill informed on the details of Obamacare, Foreign Policy, and other broader topics. I am trying to fix that though.

You should start with some economics classes. Having a real understanding of even the most basic economics will get you much further than knowing trivia about specific policies like Obamacare.

Here's a good popular-level intro: http://www.amazon.com/Basic-Economics-Common-Sense-Economy/dp/0465022529
But you should take real classes, too.

> Now, on candidates, I'm surprised at the anti-Bernie sentiment in this sub. 

Socialism is literally anti-libertarianism.

> As I understand it, Libertarians are for starting everyone on common ground, but then leaving them to their own devices afterword, regardless of whether or not they need help. 

No. Libertarians are for not *forcing* anyone to help someone else (and to help their way or you are going to prison).
>how does a Libertarian think that businesses would be able to survive in the long term, without preventing monopolies and having larger, already established businesses squishing any and all competition? 

Well, I guess first things first, is a monopoly wrong? Is being a big business wrong? There's really no point in discussing the unlikelihood of monopolies forming. 

Individuals exist for their own sake. And some of those individuals will build businesses. And some of those business will get big. It's not wrong to squash the competition. It's not force. It's not like they're physically doing anything. They're just winning customers and that's good. It isn't about being big or small, it's about winning customers. That's business.

>Further, if Libertarians think that welfare programs also have a negative impact on the general populace, then how are those who the programs are designed for (not those that take advantage of them) expected to be able to survive in a Libertarian economy?

The question shows a lack of perspective on the view. An individual exists for oneself. They don't exist for other people to use. Just because someone is in need, doesn't make a moral claim on other people's lives. It's their life, not mine, not anyones. That's the issue with welfare. How they survive is really not the individual's concern. They can work. They can work two jobs if they need it. If they can't work, they can beg for money or beg charity. The point being, they aren't owed anything. If I want to give them some money out of the good graces my heart, fine. If not, fine aswell. No one is going to stop anyone from giving to charity.

>Would a Libertarian want to totally dismantle minimum wage standards? 

Absolutely.

>Why do much of anything with your life if Burger King hamburgers pay for what you want? 

Again, this isn't the perspective. It's not about the economy in general. It's about the individual existing for oneself. The owner of the business has to pay someone more money than they're worth because the government says so. 

>If all taxation is viewed as largely negative, then how do Libertarians propose that police, emergency services, infrastructure, and any education high school and below be funded?

There are a variety of ways of doing it. Taking donations being one of them. Operating the lottery type deal. Ayn Rand suggested an arbitration service for credit transactions (essentially there are millions of credit transactions everyday and businesses could pay money for arbitration through government, else they have to find someone else to do it).

I'm not personally opposed to some sort of small tax to pay for essential services. I can discuss theory all day, but we'll never get there in my lifetime. 

>Would most Libertarians claim that, in my case and the officers in my area, it is simply a matter of time before rights are infringed upon by police officers? 

I can't speak for libertarians. I don't have a problem with police officers. There seems to be a more anti-police narrative today in society. And this sub is just a cesspool of 'fuck the police' idiocy. I'll state, I view the police as a necessary good.

> This seems to contradict the Libertarian view, which would be that any type of gun control would infringe on their rights. 

Libertarianism is a pretty poor philosophy for life. It's a political ideology, but you'll find most people don't think things through. I agree with what you said on guns. Obviously we need limitations. People shouldn't own nuclear weapons or anthrax. And if you're fucked in the head, you shouldn't have them either.

I'm not like a typical "online" libertarian that is in love with guns. I don't like guns. I don't want to live in a society where people need to use them. But I do think people have the right to have them for immediate self-defense.


>wouldn't a Libertarian say that if an internet service provider wanted to prioritize or slow down traffic for certain websites, then it is their right to do so?

Yes, they can. This issue has been way blown over with fear mongering. It's too much for me to go into.

>But if a Libertarian is anti-regulation, then wouldn’t a corporation, or any organization, be allowed to do as it pleases, rendering smaller candidates ineligible to compete?

Absolutely. Individuals can spend their money as they see fit. A business is just a group of individuals. 

>Wouldn't agreements like the TPP be beneficial? By reducing trade barriers, wouldn’t businesses be able to have more freedom in their decisions, which would be exactly what a Libertarian would want?

Libertarians are a bit funky with this type of shit. It literally borders on conspiracy theory. I'm for TPP because it liberalizes trade and that's a good thing. It's not a perfect piece of legislation. It's not true free trade, but it's better than what we have now.

With trade agreements (barring the conspiracy theories) many libertarians fall under the category of 'perfect is the enemy of good'.

>What are your views on the "no-fly" list debacle? 

I'm not exactly sure what to make of it. I'm not against it per say. I'm not sure how much damage a no fly list person could do after going through security.  

>If Libertarians want to protect freedom, wouldn't this include people of all religions, sexual orientation, or race? The reason I ask is because this would contradict the anti-regulation sentiment. If a business is allowed to deny service to a person for one of the above reasons, aren't their rights being violated?

Denying service isn't a rights violation. It's dickish for a person to discriminate against another, but it's something they can do. Not everyone has to be nice to you. Not everyone has to invite you to their birthday party.

It's just an unfortunate reality. If the government is regulating this type of social interaction, what happens when the people in government (people that make up society) decide that a racist idea should be enforced?

>When I look up Libertarian policies, the one the contradicts the most is the stance an abortion. If people have the right do as they please, then who's rights trump the other, the fetus or the mother? I myself do not necessarily support abortion, but also don’t think it's my right to deny a woman that right. 

This will always and forever be a contentious issue. I'm pro-choice. There will always be a debate on WHEN we have human life. That's just how it'll be. To some, it won't be viewed in an immoral matter and to others it'll be viewed as murder. 

>Most Libertarians would be for allowing immigrants into the country and creating a path to citizenship for them, right? How does this view affect the recent refugee debate?

I don't have a problem. I think the necessary security and health checks should be done, and if you're cool, you're cool. 

>I am pro-gay rights and gay marriage, and can't really pinpoint a "common" Libertarian sentiment on the topic though. 

The view is that there is no such thing as gay rights. All there we have are individual rights. I do believe in gay marriage. You'll hear other state that it should be left to the state to decide. Or that anyone can contract.

Any real libertarian wouldn't prohibit gay marriage.

>Wouldn't a national standard aid in this goal? 

I'm not really sure what that is. The position is that the government isn't to be in the business of education.

>Isn't Bernie pro privacy, pro personal rights, and pro gay rights, and generally someone seen that would protect individual liberties?

Bernie doesn't believe in the individual or their rights. He believes in the collective. He's essentially the anti-thesis.

>Rand Paul has apparently also stated that he doesn't even consider himself Libertarian. So why the love for him in this sub?

My opinion is that he's a libertarian trying to play a more moderate and electable position. I'm not a libertarian, so I don't exactly like him.

>So, as I asked before, is it just the economics? Is that what makes Rand Paul that much of a better candidate than Bernie? What about an actual Libertarian Candidate? 

See previous answer.

>So perhaps I could be considered a Green-Libertarian, something I have also begun to look into (although I have very little knowledge of that yet). 

We don't exactly need more designations of useless ideological names. You're just probably more of a democrat or centerist. Nothing wrong with it, but that's probably a more accurate description of what you represent.



> I understand that Libertarianism is not just a political ideology but also a philosophical idea, so this is more directly concerned with the Libertarian party. 

The Libertarian party isn't really an ideologically cohesive group in the same way that the Republican or Democratic parties are. Libertarianism (capital 'L' or lower-case 'l') is, by design, ideologically very broad. It is based on a very small set of "axioms" which are taken very seriously when analyzing any particular issue. Consequently, it has very diverse applications and can lead to very diverse conclusions.

By contrast, for example, Progressive ideology is extremely narrow--there are very *specific* party-line stances on party-deemed "important" issues, which are baked into the ideology (such as, not just distribution of wealth, but particular approved models for distribution of wealth). This narrowness is by design, too. Most ideologies are designed to address specific sets of issues with only tenuous philosophical connections between them.

It's important to understand that the intention of libertarianism is not like that of other ideologies. *It is not intended to be a universal fix-all-the-world's-evils solution*. It is instead a simple set of general principles for ensuring that your behavior (personal, or political) is ethical and does not infringe on other people's rights. Sometimes you'll hear this distinction explained as "libertarian is an adjective, not a noun."  

Oversimplifying by quite a little bit, the basic ideological principle is something like: "do no harm" or "do not interfere with people's choices."

The Libertarian party is about applying this principle to government policy, and, in particular, being aware of the unintended consequences and real costs of policies, in terms of the harm they cause.

> As I understand it, Libertarian's believe that almost any government involvement in economics, including regulation, taxation, subsidizing, tariffs, etc. all have a negative impact on the economy. 

Generally, yes. It's important to note that this is not an assumption, but a conclusion based on literally centuries of political philosophy and economics.

> So the first of my questions, then, is how does a Libertarian think that businesses would be able to survive in the long term, without preventing monopolies and having larger, already established businesses squishing any and all competition? 

From an economics point of view, the "bad" thing about a monopoly is that it causes an inefficient use of resources, and this inefficiency shows up in the market through prices that are much higher than they would be if there were competition (an important side-note: when the media claims that a company is a monopoly because they are keeping prices artificially *low*, they are full of crap). However, the high prices caused by a monopoly invite competition with the monopoly, making it no longer a monopoly. Consequently, in practice, actual monopolies tend to not exist for very long, and to only occur when a new market develops and there are not as-yet any competitors.

The only examples where monopolies exist for long periods of time are government-granted monopolies. Either by explicitly by government legislation, or implicitly by creating legislation that makes it difficult to compete (e.g., local laws that discourage Google Fiber from moving into a city).

These are basic economic facts, not political philosophy. The Libertarian political philosophy comes in to play only in noticing that well-intended laws intended to protect consumers often accidentally create monopolies or harm competition.

> It seems that the view is that monopolies wouldn't exist without the large presence of government as it already is, but I have a hard time believing that a company would be unable to gain control of an industry if left unchecked.

The field of economics disagrees. In real life, as an empirical fact, actual monopolies are extremely rare.

> Further, if Libertarians think that welfare programs also have a negative impact on the general populace, then how are those who the programs are designed for (not those that take advantage of them) expected to be able to survive in a Libertarian economy? 

Ideally, a truly libertarian economy would be free enough that the demand for jobs would be larger than the supply of jobs. Consequently, the vast majority of people would be able to find sufficiently highly paid jobs so as to not need welfare.

There are extreme examples where that's not true. For example, if someone has a serious disease that prevents them from working. In this case, the libertarian solution is private charities. These can be run much more efficiently than government megaprograms, and they can provide personalized help in the way that a faceless bureaucracy cannot.

> So if that is the case, is a Libertarian view toward these people truly a "screw them", or "not with my money" mentality? 

It absolutely is not--the argument is "the government cannot effectively provide this service" and "most people who rely on these services only need them because of harm the government has indirectly caused them."

> The same applies to other subsidies, such as to specific industries that promote greener alternatives. 

The government has an extremely poor track record for promoting new technologies compared to the markets. 

> The mentality of leaving those people who truly do need help alone does not sit right with me.

The mentality of "take our help our way, like it or not" does not sit right with me.

> In a similar vein, are pensions something that Libertarians are entirely against, as far as the public sector goes? 

I don't think anyone is against reasonably implemented pensions, but they are against the corruption and idiocy that is often associated with government pensions. Gigantically, unsustainably, huge pensions granted for political favor rather than based on salary or performance, or pensions funded by taxes rather than *investment* are examples.

> Is the idea that "if you're retired, you're on your own"?

The idea is "you should not rely on other people's money."

> Would a Libertarian want to totally dismantle minimum wage standards? 

Yes, absolutely. They cause market distortions that disproportionately impact low-income earners, low-skills workers, and people early in their carriers.

> [...] you also create a formula for laziness. 

It's not about laziness, it's about economics. Higher minimum wages means employers cannot hire as many people, depriving potential employees of skills, experience, and income. A $5/hr secretary job for six months could easily lead to higher-paying work that wouldn't have been available without experience.

> If all taxation is viewed as largely negative, then how do Libertarians propose that police, emergency services, infrastructure, and any education high school and below be funded? 

Would you believe that until recently, all of these things were funded without enormous tax burdens? 

There are numerous ways to pay for these services without taxation, that have been used successfully for literally hundreds of years. Private industry can also easily provide most, if not all, of these. 

> it seems that tax rates increase to go toward irrelevant items

So you're saying you've looked at detailed breakdowns of what local, state, and federal spending goes to?

> As I understand it, most Libertarians are anti-police, in the sense that Police should only exist to protect life and basic rights. 

Yes, we believe the police should not be used to collect taxes.

> But judging from what I've seen on this sub, it seems that many Libertarians are ENTIRELY anti-police. 

Lots of people on this sub are idiots. And lots of them aren't libertarian in any meaningful sense. 

> I'm in a field where I work closely with Police officers, and have never had an issue with over aggressiveness. Even beyond personal experiences, Police in my area have not had a reputation for brutality or "abuse of power". 

The vast majority of police are perfectly reasonably behaved. The trouble comes from when police are asked to enforce laws which do not relate to public safety, placing them into dangerous situations that are likely to end up with someone harmed.

There's also the occasional flashbang-in-the-baby's-crib-type incident...

Generally, these problems are caused by politicians, not the cops, though.

> Would most Libertarians claim that, in my case and the officers in my area, it is simply a matter of time before rights are infringed upon by police officers? 

Only when the enforcement of the laws requires rights be infringed.
Monopolies:

How did businesses thrive before there was regulation? There is not a monoply or mega corporation today that has not been built using government protections of some kind. I don't think there has been one in the history of the world. The East Indian Empire Company comes to mind.

While looking for video aids in showing how regulations help big business and hurt the small, i came across one that does a pretty good job explaining it. Less writing for me and reading for you.

http://www.learnliberty.org/videos/how-cronyism-hurting-economy/

Along with this, regulating an industry is a disincentive for new businesses to enter a particular market. Even if it is just another big business, at the very least you are losing out on possible competition that is the greatest driving force for innovation; bigger, better, cheaper, faster...

http://www.learnliberty.org/videos/should-government-regulate-monopolies/
Friend, i just read your first paragraph and scrolled your entire question. It's a LOT, but that's ok. This is the very reason i come to this sub. I will here and now make you a promise.

I will answer EVERY question you have posted, and further any follow up questions you may have. It doesn't matter of the question philosophical or practical. I will endeavor to assist you in learning about libertarianism (at least as i understand it, even to degrees i don't necessarily agree with). I will guide you as deep down the rabbit hole as you want to go, so to speak.

You did post a lot and it will get to it, but it is going to take me time to get to them all. Please do not abandon this thread.

Now for my own disclaimer: I tend to post a wall of text as well.

Until I get you some answers, you should check some of this out:

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=8GazZBvHhgQ

http://www.amazon.com/Dangerous-Right-When-Government-Wrong/dp/1595553509

http://www.learnliberty.org/

I have many more sites, videos, books, etc, but this should keep you occupied for a while.

Edit: just finished reading you whole post. I noticed most of your questions were centered on the practical. I will focus on this when answering. As far as which candidate you should vote for, that's up to you. A lot of people here seem to like Rand Paul. Personally, I'm not 100% in agreement with him and prefer other people to include his father (aware he is not running). Also, I will not answer as an edit or reply to this post. I will make a seperate post; perhaps even for each question individually, considering the length my answers will likely be. Also also (yes, that was intentional and a reference to Monty Python. I make *myself* giggle dammit.) I may post links to previous questions i have answered in lieu of answering here. Like i said, my posts are long. Post follow on questions to relevant posts here.
To answer your first 2 questions, 

1. There has never been a free market monopoly that has hurt consumers. If there was one, it would open a huge hole in the market.

2. Regarding welfare, you say "The mentality of leaving those people who truly do need help alone does not sit right with me." So would you voluntarily give your own money to charity? If yes, why do you think you're the only one? If no, do you see your hypocrisy?

I was in the same boat as you not too long ago, these 2 podcasts helped my understanding of libertarianism tremendously, and I can't recommend them enough:

* *The Tom Woods Show*, which is more serious
* *Part Of The Problem,* which is a more light-hearted take, which makes it very easy and enjoyable to listen to, and is **extremely** informative.
ok, ill try to answer some

as far as welfare is concerned many libertarians see the abuse in the welfare system and see that americans who work are paying for shitbags who sit at home and live off of welfare. I personally would support making it harder to get on welfare(prove you need it).

the reason nobody likes Bernie on this sub is because of his economics, hes fine on most social issues.

Rand Paul is loved here(not everyone here loves him but still) because hes the closest thing to a libertarian that has a shot at becoming president, and despite him saying hes not a libertarian, hes pretty much a libertarian on 90% of the issues