Title: Why is free speech associated with being conservative?

Post:
When did believing in free speech and being against censorship become something associated with the far right? I would assume that the freedom of speaking your mind without having to agree with the majority would be a bipartisan goal. Free speech should not be infringed by social media either

Top Comments:
The left used to be very pro-free speech. E.g. fighting anti-pornography laws, the 1960s free speech movement in Berkeley, etc. Things flipped around the time of the rise of wokeness about 10-12 years ago. The left began promoting "deplatforming" speakers they disagreed with, as we saw at Stanford recently. Speech they didn't like was labeled "hate speech" and there are constant attempts to ban it. A recent twist involves calling things "misinformation" etc. and having the government (through various non-profits as cut-outs) censor and ban people on social media, as shown in the Twitter files. 

Now that the left has control of many institutions, it's trying to censor and suppress speech by claiming that free speech is "conservative," "far right," or even "fascist." It's absurd, but that's the clown world we live in now.
I guess because liberals and the left are not as tolerant as they supposedly were.

When liberals were the counterculture they fought against the establishment. But as decades passed the liberal ideology became the mainstream, and started to show its true colors: intolerance. They started to cancel and censor things, they became what they fought against: the new establishment.

Then nowadays in my opinion the right has become the new counterculture, fighting against the establishment and for freedom of speech, fighting against the frequent calls for cancellations rallied by people with liberal/woke ideologies.

The right has become the old left because the old counterculture became the new mainstream.
It's not really. It's this slow dissolution of two political parties in this country playing tit for tat with each other. And now we all have to suffer from their rhetoric. You don't just immediately lose your ability to free speech. It's a slow and degrading process. Before you know it. It's totally gone. 

My grandfather who was raised in the Soviet Union told me a lot of similarities of today before he passed away. The communists couldn't just take away people's freedom to speak at first. They had to set up this appearance that you did have the freedom to speak. So at first they would set up these committees and tell people that they were simply trying to fight "misinformation" and over time there were many things that just became very taboo to talk about. At first they wouldn't throw you in jail if you had the "wrong opinion". But they would shame you and you would have to sort of go on this apology tour. Essentially making any kind of public discourse or discussion impossible. But more importantly, they started infiltrating schools and universities with Marxist ideology. They knew they needed to shape the minds of future generations. By the end of the 20s they started to pass laws that were meant to fight "propaganda" which basically made it criminal to criticize the communist party. And by the time Stalin came to power it was game over. He purged/killed anyone and anything that was even seen as a slight threat to the regime. And by that time it didn't even matter anymore. Everyone lived in such an atmosphere of fear that everyone began to self-censor themselves. 

My grandfather used to tell me that in the Soviet Union you had 3 opinions 
What you said to yourself, what you said to your family, and finally what you said when the cameras were on. 
Scary shit!
I think if you polled dems they would be overwhelmingly in favor of free speech. I also have read dems are more ok with censorship of political ideas they disagree with while repubs are less likely to censor opposing material in social media. Free speech has also been a major talking point for conservative politicians lately because of this trend. Far left see the call for free speech as an ode to Hitler, Nazism, and Fascism. And so the cycle continues.
The now mainstream left got ahead of the right in cultural media and took what they though was the best move: try to deny all possibility of digression.

By mass selling their political views as "normal", "center", etc they moved overton window and tried to exclude any other view.

Basically a similar move to branding something a sin or heresy in the middle ages. Advocators of such ideas are then scorned and need to hide their views and thoughts.

The basic form of opposition to such extreme censorship is anti censorship, so those monk-like conservatives that advocated for extreme censorship pretty much became marginal since they have no power to censor anything currently. So free speech is now associated with the turbo-omega-far-farthest-right.
Because words have no meaning anymore. We live in a liberal society and both the Commies and the Neocons have been chomping at the definition of liberalism for decades now. It's basically a slur at this point.