Title: Opinion: Trump's Recent Response to The Twitter and Facebook Ban Proves Social Media Companies Banning Individuals Does Not Silence Them Unreasonably

Post:
It is apparently over a month old now but with the recent decisions by Facebook and Twitter on the ban on Trump I have become aware that Donald Trump now has his own blog.

[https://www.donaldjtrump.com/desk](https://www.donaldjtrump.com/desk)

The amount of media attention it is garnering and the growing public awareness of it I feel shows that companies such as twitter and facebook do not unduly harm someone's freedom of speech by banning them from their service.  For me it is comparable to time before social media when someone wrote book that no publisher would touch they could self-publishing that book.  Most current social media has removed Trump from their platform so he has created his own platform.

From what I can tell it has a longer character limit that Twitter, has a better format than Facebook, has no ads, and to me appears to have better general utility for spreading his message.  There was a hurdle, so someone overcame it with available tools.

Banning individuals from these platforms appears to have become a political issue with Trump's ban being a rallying cry for many. Tthat he was able to so easily create a blog so easily accessed I feel indicates that social media companies should be free allow or disallow individuals on their platform as they see fit.

Top Comments:
I agree with this. There's nothing in the way of the average person from starting their own website and hosting their own platform on their own hardware. 

Twitter is not the bastion of free speech and we shouldn't be forcing them to be.
Yes, because all people are trust fund babies with hundreds of millions of dollars they've never worked a day in thier lives to earn, and are former presidents
I somewhat agree, but at the same time I feel like it's only a matter of time until these networks are either broken up, or treated more like utilities. I don't really agree with the book publishing metaphor because publishers always published only a small minority of manuscripts they receive, and had significant financial risk associated with each publication. Social media sites are the opposite.

Additionally, Trump is not a typical person in terms of resources to get things done on his own. If the water company decided to cut off his water because they didn't like him, he could have built a private aqueduct to his house. That doesn't mean water companies should have the right to turn off water for whomever they don't like, because it didn't affect this one rich guy.
The right to ban users is not in question. We know Trump can be banned as much as anyone else.

Yet, it’s also true that these leftist platforms will do everything they can to shut down any right wing platforms purely because they disagree with them.

We’ve already seen this with Parlor or whatever it was called, the app servers wouldn’t even allow downloads from what I read. 

This is full-on regulation of speech, and it is not nearly as innocent as the big platforms pretend it is, because they’re biased.

Apologists use reasoning like “they incited violence!” as justification to swing legal weight at anyone Twitter doesn’t like.

However, violence is tolerated, and even encouraged, on their own platforms as long as it is directed at the people that moderators approve of users being violent towards.

It’s a double standard that is overlooked by the “ruling class” left, but they’re not always going to be the majority. It will change eventually.
Right so if I wanna know what Trump has to say, it's no longer enough to just open one tab (let's say Twitter) and see notifications on everyone I'm following, I have to open two, one purely for Trump, not for any particularly good reason but because Twitter decided to put ideology above business.

Understand that censorship of this kind means only one thing. It's not that you don't like Trump, it's that you think NOBODY should like Trump or even hear what he has to say. Twitter is trying to make a decision for me and I will never respect that.

Fuck Twitter, they turned a business model that may have been okay into a leftist shitshow and a tool of ideological subversion. Their downfall hopefully will come soon enough, I hope it goes even further and investors file a class action lawsuit because they're also screwing over their investors by putting ideology above business and making themselves vulnerable to either regulations or competition.

One or the other will happen.
if they are moderating posts, banning users, blocking posts, and slapping "misleading information" disclaimers on things they disagree with, they should not get Section 230 protections.