Title: Why do Nazis, woke people and other enemies of democracy think that free speech has some inherent connection to government? It doesn't.

Post:
"Is speech free?" is not a synonym for "what is the government's stance on free expression?"

Speech is free or not regardless of what kind of government is in power. 

For examples from our neighbors, the question "do Mexicans have free speech with regard to criticism of cartels?" or "do Brazilian favela dwellers have free speech with regard to criticism of the gangs that run those favelas?"

In both cases the answer is "free speech on those topics in those places is non-existent, and speaking out could easily cause your entire family to be tortured to death".

In many parts of the USA, criticism of BLM/Antifa and associates will get you killed. They killed many  people, often (Ed.)  for expressing the wrong view. Bernell Trammell, Antonio Mays jr, Lorenzo Anderson, Chris Beaty, Aaron Danielson, Italia Kelly, Secoriea Turner, Marvin Francois, Jose Gutierrez, Victor Cazares jr, Tyler Gerth, Jessica Doty Whitaker, and David Dorn and untold others where we just don't know.

Not all criminal gangs risk jail. Many US corporations act like the gangs referred to above, imposing economic death on their victims. 

None of the above suppressions of free speech have any link to laws or governments, and pretending otherwise is a tool of groups like the Taliban, Antifa, the Nazi party or woke people: in short anybody who seeks to turn the world into a blood soaked tragedy.

Edit: added names of BLM/Antifa victims

Top Comments:
US social media corporations do have links to government. Several emails have been found where government officials coordinate with them to suppress topics and opinions. It is amazing that some people think it is OK for government to outsource censorship as a loophole.
Facts.  If you're afraid to speak your mind because somebody will hurt you for it - whether physically, legally, or economically - your speech is being suppressed, and you should recognize the people who are doing it as your enemies.
Nazis are almost completely obselete nowadays, closest thing to them are movements like BLM/Antifa which are considered woke so not really sure the point of adding both.

Free speech has interpretations. If you interpret it as that I don't even really disagree with you but it's not such a black and white subject.
Uh it kind of does because the US is one of the only countries in the world that explicitly protects speech with the 1st amendment. So when folks are alarmed about the attempts by activists to limit speech in the name of safety or anything else, it is explicitly political because it requires the government to abridge the right.
More often than not it’s leftists pointing to what’s legally defined as free speech, so as they can without conscious violate the ideal of free speech with their actions (granted this is almost always brought up in a context which supports their personal and political objectives, so who actually knows if these people honestly don’t value free speech as an ideal or if violating the ideal is just a confinement way to cultivate perceived power).
>In many parts of the USA, criticism of BLM will get you killed. They killed 4 people in 2020 for expressing the wrong view.

Links please