Title: How do libertarians (and free speech advocates) deal with the issue of social media de-platforming being in contradiction with private company control?

Post:
I hear about the case of the wedding cake maker who refused service to the gay couple. People said ‘private companies should have the freedom to refuse service to anyone’.

Social media private companies deplatform and remove right wing or conservative voices. People say ‘they shouldn’t be allowed to de-platform.’

How is this contradiction resolved for supporters of free speech and private company control? 

One resolution I can think of is the foundational libertarian principle that you should have the freedom to do as you wish as long as it doesn’t impede on other people’s freedoms. So being kicked off a platform for *no* reason goes against that principle. 

Being kicked off because you violated the particular platform’s rules seems fair, but then you enter the issue of inconsistency in the application of the rules to some but not others. 

Would this inconsistency be ‘allowed’ under a libertarian free speech mindset because the company is technically just doing what it wants?

Or is it moreso that unless you’re going to apply the rules equally then you’re impeding on the freedoms of some but not others, which is not ok? So to analogise the case of the cake maker, if they refuse service to all people wanting a gay marriage cake then that is their right, but if they served some gay weddings but not others that would be inconsistent application?

Curious what people think about this.

Top Comments:
Simple. To most people, freedom only matters when they're the ones being restrained. 

You see the hypocrisy from all around. People who support dress codes for "morality", but are against mask mandates because "no one can force me to put something on my body". People who support police being able to pull brown people over and request citizenship papers being horrified at vaccine passports. People who are pre-choice thinking that the government should be able to mandate vaccination for everyone. 

People look at freedom through a lens that strongly biases towards "is this preventing ME from doing something", not "is this preventing someone ELSE from doing something".

From a libertarian perspective, absent government interference, an internet company should be able to kick you off for any reason they want, provided they follow any contact you have with them. 

And if enough people actually want a company that kicks no one off,  someone can start it and it will fill a niche and be a success. 

But in my experience, most people upset about deplatforming don't actually want a site that deplatforms NO ONE. They want a site that deplatforms only "the wrong" people. Take r/conservatives, for instance. All up in arms about tech companies deplatforming people, but they ban anyone with an opposing idea from speaking out.
Its thier company, they can kick anyone they want of the platform.

Thier speech is not being taken away, they can go outside and say stupid shit all day long.
From a legal perspective the libertarian response would be that these tech companies should be able to ban anyone they want for whatever reason they want.

But this doesn’t mean that libertarians think these companies *should* ban anyone they want for whatever reason they want.

It is very libertarian to boycott and fight against companies who censor and ban people for speech. Just as long as they would never fight against them with the law.
Thinking the government should decide what speech is and is not allowed on social media is not a libertarian belief.
Most libertarians will support the right of both the cake maker and the platform to discriminate how they see fit.

Legally the interesting argument I've heard (not really consistent with libertarian principles, though) is that the big social media platforms have become monopolies in the legal sense of the word, and are therefore subject to legal regulation. A more extreme argument is that they have become utilities. For example an internet service provider cannot refuse service to someone because they don't like them. 20 years ago the internet in your home was considered a luxury, but it is now considered a utility that you have certain rights to (at a reasonable cost). I think really the argument is, at what point do Twitter, YouTube, and Facebook become monopolies or even utilities?
Freedom of speech is protection from government.

Leave the platform that is censoring you, vote with your dollars and your individual ad revenue, and support their competition.
Its a private company. The issue is when politicians try to influence the companies and what they allow or dont allow or label as misinformation.
You should be able to refuse to bake a cake for any reason. You should be able to remove someone from your platform for any reason. Well, that was easy.
"private companies should have the freedom to refuse service to anyone’."

But it would be better for a peaceful, open and cooperative society if they used this right as little as possible.
Generally speaking a private company should be able to do what they want. The sticky part is when companies start taking federal funds (tax payer dollars) and/or working directly with government. What then?