Title: Free Speech and Censorship

Post:
I understand that corporate rules and state rules regarding speech are two entirely different things, because the first can in theory be countered by the free market, but the state enjoys the authority to impose it's restrictions on account of its monopoly on the legitimate use of violence. However, there is one issue with this argument. Facebook, over the years has bought 78 companies. It owns 4 of the 5 most downloaded apps in the playstore, all of which are media sharing apps, two of which are social media apps. It is not hard to envision a future where Facebook (or any company I'm just using Facebook as an example) acquires all the major social networking sites. If then, it imposes its corporate rules on all its websites, it essentially gains the power of censorship, seeing as to how social media has become the 'public square' for our generation. Would this not be just as bad as government censorship? I think, in the light of social media becoming such important parts of public discourse, they should only be subject to the restrictions on free speech as prescribed by the constitution, namely direct threats of violence and inciting of violence. 

Since Trump was pretty clearly inciting violence, they got it right this time, but there's always the the precedent for a monopoly to misuse it's power.

CNN, Fox, other TV Channels, Book Publishers, Movie Labels etc. function off of directly monetised content, and therefore have and should have full control over what they choose to put out, based on whatever criteria they want, whether it is profit, information or whatever else. Social Media sites are platforms that follow a model of indirect monetisation, wherein the content is the public's, and the profit is usually made by advertising that public content. What I'm proposing would only apply to indirectly monetised content, i.e social media.

Top Comments:
I feel like Trump supporters are hypocritical when it comes to websites banning “free speech”.

If you go to that Trump supporting news website Breitbart you get banned right away if you comment anything bad about Donald Trump. 

I got banned right away after calling Trump diaper Don.

President Trump was known for blocking a lot of people on Twitter. Isn’t that stopping free speech? 

Horror writer Stephen King said he received the Medal of Arts from from President Obama and he received a block on Twitter from President Trump.
The flaw in this line of thinking is to view Facebook and Twitter as a public square. I understand the logic behind it, but it’s fundamentally not what these sites are. Instead, they need to be seen as forms of media. There are a few relatively large media corporations as well, and you certainly wouldn’t expect Fox News to be forced to represent liberal views or for CNN to have to hear Giuliani out “fairly”.

Social media makes profit by making the public into free content creators. As a result, it’s so much more open that it starts to resemble a public space, which can only be a good thing. But ultimately it’s a media company, and individuals have no applicable “right” to that space whatsoever - to do so would be to infringe on the rights of the company to run their business as they see fit.
> It is not hard to envision a future where Facebook (or any company I'm just using Facebook as an example) acquires all the major social networking sites.

It actually is hard to envision that future. I don't see how it's possible. It would require Google selling to Facebook, or vice-versa. And then there are the people that create sites for more ideological purposes. They just want their own little piece of the internet and don't care to sell it. And how would this monopoly stop other sites from popping up? I've been on the internet since 1997. Do you have any idea how many sites have come and go in that time, some making it big on their own, some selling out, some just withering away? There is no way for Facebook to stop the next Facebook any more than Myspace could.
Well, its not really a public square.  


Its private property so free speech doesn't exist there. 


If it was seized and made public property it would be a public square and it would have free speech. 



Anyhow, when hostile powers use hate speech to destabilise your country,  that country has to have the means to protect itself.




Governments need to sue the shit out of these corporarions for destabilising liberal democracies with hate speech.
Do you really want to use an internet in which people cannot be banned because their online posts are considered  protected?

While I agree that it would be pretty funny to have a bunch of atheists go sign up for ChristianMingle just to mess with the fundies, or for people to go post gay porn and commie memes all over whatever shit place the people from t_d went to after it was banned, I also don't want places I visit to be overrun with similar attempts to troll and/or ruin the discourse.

It's important that the government not limit peoples' political speech because that removes any scope for honest debate about policy, but the internet would be a terrible place if online speech was protected and bans were not allowed.

Also, in this case it's worth noting that Trump was doing one of the few forms of speech that is not even protected in a public space, so he could potentially be impeached over this mess, or tried and convicted after he's president.
EZ PZ: want to use a platform, don’t invite violence, post menacing statements, or otherwise violate TOS. I have no sympathy for users choosing to use services then choosing to violate the owners’ rules therein. It is a personal choice and personal responsibility.
Maybe don't use social media to build a fascist movement and violent attack on the peoples government and you wont lose your privilege.  This obviously was not something the companies took lightly or they'd have cracked down a long time ago, but the reality of what they were enabling has finally set in..
The way to fix these concerns is to vote people into office that will fix these issues. Vote for middle of the road non+extreme candidates.