Title: The U.S. Government’s Vast New Privatized Censorship Regime: Censorship of wrongthink by Big Tech at the behest of the government is government censorship, which violates the First Amendment

Post:


Top Comments:
I do wonder who is downvoting anything which suggests that tech companies should be  
accountable for their ability to censor whatever they want.
Maybe the same who banned me from r/technology for posting this?

Joke's on them though: downvotes, more censorship, and bans won't deter the Missouri state AG or Senator Hawley from chasing down why the federal government is coordinating with social media to remove content. That's a big incoming L that, if it doesn't come as a result of this case, is surely coming because this behavior is just going to get more egregious as time goes on if left unchecked.
Reading comprehension's not your strong suit, is it?

>So government should force private businesses to host my speech no matter what the rules of that business is? 

So government should force private businesses to **remove** my speech no matter what the rules of that business is?
Nowhere in reality was the government forcing them to remove it. The owners of the platform said "Hey is this real?" The government replied, "No. Here is the proof and it would help us do our Constitutional duty to "Promote the General Welfare" of the populace if you could  stop it because we don't have the right to force you."

The company said that they thought that was resonable since it did violate their terms of service and acted accordingly. 

There were other social media companies that said, "nah we're good" and were allowed to go on without government interference, but you "forget" that.

What you're saying is that you're either too cowardly or too lazy to go to the townsquare with your sandwich board and say what you want. You want to force people to listen to you.

Life must be great if you're not burdened by things like ethics and honesty.
"it's a crime against my freedom of speech if i'm suspended from twitter for 6 minutes for posting 12376182371928379 anti-trans slurs in a row. it's fine if we burn all the books written by a black person in my local library" - the typical reddit free speech boy