Title: Reddit is a social media of censorship and propaganda.

Post:
Reddit used to be a social media where free speech was valued. It is now a platform managed by a few moderators and big money, where posts, comments get frequently deleted, even if they are not hateful or insulting, but only because they offend the moderators or the companies investing in Reddit. It is pitiful to see how the internet has turned out.

[The tragic Tale of Reddit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0SQ-TJKPPIg&ab_channel=Moon)

Top Comments:
Anybody remember the mass migration from Digg to Reddit in the late 2000s?

The complaints about Digg were almost identical to yours: over-commercialization and a small set of “power users” who controlled most of the content. Reddit was seen as more open, more diverse, and less commercialized, so naturally people shifted over and it became the most popular website on the internet.

Now it has eroded that culture of free expression for the sake of short-term profitability. This is a myopic, self-defeating strategy. Reddit has become a collection of echo chambers watched over by faceless mods.

Mods for 1k+ subs should not be anonymous. We should know who is moderating our speech and content, and their reputations should be on the line. Lack of accountability is killing this site.
The biggest problem with Reddit is the completely lack of oversight and professionalism of the mods.  To allow a bot to run and find users to ban based on what groups they are subscribed to is an insane level of intolerance and childishness.

We have all seen it,  groups were leftist can say outlandish, hateful and even death threats with impunity but if a conservative view is shut down or banned for made up reasons, with no recourse or review. 

This place is a lefty cesspit.
Reddit set the gold standard with the first ban of a sub being r/jailbait \- not because it was offensive (it was) but because in order to make sure there was nothing illegal (cp) being posted, they had to have someone scrutinize every photo to make sure there was pubes and such. This was obviously too much of an emotional toll for that person or people, so it was banned. It was banned because there was legit illegal stuff on it. 

It's sad to see such a great free speech platform that would let anything go as long as it was legal turn into a cesspit of "if it hurts someone's feelings, it should be banned". I'm subbed to r/PoliticalCompassMemes, and it looks like that sub is either going to get banned or turned into just another lefty echochamber.
I don't like censorship, but it's amazing that propaganda can work very effectively without it. In this sub if you point out a very simple, obvious truth such as the last election not being rigged, you will get severely downvoted.

I wish Conservatives could use their free speech to obtain truth, but unfortunately and very sadly most of them cannot.
Since polling became leading question driven & politically biased the majority are worthless & are often commissioned to justify writing an op ed.

It's like polling MSNBC viewers on their belief Trump is a threat to democracy, so Rachel Maddow has something to be outraged about that evening discussing it.

Former great mastheads like WaPo & NYT are little more than an extension of liberal campuses, where good journalism has been replaced by 20 something junior journos who want to tell you what they & their friends think.

It's not dissimilar to r/politics, only your meant to pay for it