Title: Big tech and free speech: a response to fee.org's recent article

Post:
It's clear I'm not the only one that gets fee.org's daily newsletter. [Dan Sanchez and Liam McCollum have written about free speech and big tech](https://fee.org/articles/big-tech-and-free-speech-how-both-the-left-and-the-right-are-wrong/). 

Herein I offer a quibble with their article and reject a basis of their conclusion. 

I also address the Terms of Service argument and shouting "fire" in a public space. 

Free speech is a fundamental human right. It stems from the fact that man owns himself. He can choose what he says, who he associates with and owns his property. 

The article, correctly, points out, in quoting Rothbard, that free speech essentially is subject to the permission of someone else when on their property. 

The question becomes on what is private property. 

In my opinion, the article makes a gross mistake in saying that private property, in the context of the internet and big tech, is merely servers. Whoever owns the servers can say what is said on the internet sites that are hosted on said servers. And, therefore, as asserted by the article, censorship of free speech is acceptable through these property rights. 

It draws from an example of a theater being analogous to the internet. 

I find this to be a gross oversimplification of the internet. The internet is far more than just servers. It is a global communication system of complex apparatus that includes both public and private property (as an ancap I would prefer it to be completely private and owned by many different businesses, but we're not there, yet). 

It also necessarily includes the private device each individual uses to access it. I'm typing this on my phone between sets at the gym but could just as easily be using my laptop at home. 

Remove just one of these devices/apparatuses and the internet ceases to exist. 

Remove one of these things and the entire business model of big tech ceases to exist. Without my private property, my device, to access social media their data harvesting advertising machine ceases to exist. Just as would happen if you took away the other elements of the global telecommunications network (including underwater cables or satellites that transmit data around the world - some, or all, is paid for through my stolen income ie taxes). 

Therefore, to boil this down to the private property rights of servers to deny a person's right to free speech is erroneous and incorrect. Big tech has no property rights on the internet. To exist, they need my device, the telegraph poles going down my street, the public energy utilities near my city, the private phone company I contract with to access the internet, as well as the servers that host my data. 

It doesn't matter what is in their Terms of Service. Human rights are inalienable. They are fundamental to every man just as are all his phycial faculties. As such, no man can contract away his human rights. 

For these reasons, I submit that big tech cannot censor our free speech. To do so is a violation of the NAP. It doesn't matter what you say. I will defend the right of every man to say what he wants. Even if I disagree with it. Even commies. 

Final note addressing shouting "fire" in a crowded place.
The article correctly states that in a theater someone that shouts "fire" and disrupts proceedings can be removed as each ticket holder as a right to uninterrupted proceedings. 

However, usually, this justification for the limit on free speech is on the basis that shouting "fire" in a public space will lead to mass panic and possible injury. 

I reject this premise on the simple basis that after 20 years of work where there's been at least 20 fire drills or false alarms never have I seen people panic. Usually it's just a roll of the eyes and wait to be told to leave whilst carrying on with work. Nobody cares. Nobody panics. Thus, this is no justification to limit free speech.

Top Comments:
> I reject this premise on the simple basis that after 20 years of work where there's been at least 20 fire drills or false alarms never have I seen people panic.

You ever seen someone yell "fire" in an era [before buildings were built to modern fire codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triangle_Shirtwaist_Factory_fire)?
So if i want to start a forum for my kids and their friends about DnD, I should be legally prohibited from preventing you from just spamming hard-core pornography onto my the site that I created?
> It also necessarily includes the private device each individual uses to access it.  

> Remove just one of these devices and internet will cease to exist. 

You think if you consume something you somehow gain rights to be “served properly”, and even more, you yourself can now define meaning of “properly”. 

Your logic is “without us, there would be no them”, but it is simply not true. 

Internet as a whole, or any service in particular doesn’t need yours or anyone else’s device to “exist”. 

All they need is investor’s money. They have a saying on what service should or should not do. You don’t. 

Article is correct.
I couldn't disagree with your conclusion more. (I won't defend the FEE piece, having not read it.)

There are true statements here for sure. It's not a simple, "Private company; too bad," but your argument goes much too far. Apply it to the physical world and you easily demonstrate that because the state has build the roads and monopolized the utilities, there is no such thing as private property, and you no longer have a right to exclude me from the home in which you sleep.
> Remove just one of these devices/apparatuses and the internet ceases to exist.

That's now how the internet was designed.

If big tech can't do it, then neither can moderators on Reddit kicking people out of their subreddits.
I self-host a database driven website. It’s in my home, connected to my internet but I still require external cabling, routing, and ultimately user devices for interaction outside my home. Am I entitled to censor user-submitted information?
I agree except for one thing.

>no man can contract away his human rights

Having rights means having responsibilities. If you choose to contact away your rights, that's your, well, right.
>Remove just one of these devices/apparatuses and the internet ceases to exist.

So if you smash your phone the internet will cease to exist?
I think you should refine your argument to focus more on how big tech is benefited by the state rather than talking about their servers which are their private property.
>Without my private property, my device, to access social media their data harvesting advertising machine ceases to exist.

If that's truly what you believe then you have about as self-centered of a view of reality that's possible.  This is literally the grown-up version of babies falling for "peekaboo".

That aside, who would impose the rules upon a business that they have to leave their platform unmoderated and uncensored?  That's a rhetorical question, because the only answer to it, unless you're going to be disingenuous about it, is the government.  So what you're proposing is that the government should be able to force a private business to do something they don't want to do?

How very authoritarian of you.  You do know what sub-reddit you're in, right?