Title: MTG hit with Facebook suspension after Twitter ban. She needs to stop whining about freedom. Businesses have the right to control their property. It’s the First Amendment. She doesn’t have a right to use their platform. She can start her own social media company. We’re a free country!

Post:


Top Comments:
For people whining about it- It’s OK to both absolutely abhor Facebook, Twitter, etc. (and even fight against efforts they make to stifle competition) while still defending the notion that they’re allowed to do whatever the hell they want with their own infrastructure. This whole “platform vs publisher” nonsense largely boils down to “they’re popular and if I wanna be popular I gotta do the popular thing and now I’m upset because I’m not getting the outcome I wanted”. If anything, this whole debate should be held up as an example of how easily the population at-large lets organizations like Twitter come in and effectively work to shape their world-view, but, sadly, that’d probably a lot more critical thinking, skepticism and self-reflection than most people are capable of these days. 

The response *should* be “hey guys this is ridiculous, we should all just stop using Twitter”, but instead, people that otherwise scream about government overreach would rather just have more government overreach. Oh well, hopefully Trump and co. get “TRUTH SOCIAL” up and running soon and they can all just go have their own dumb echo chamber (/s, mostly…)
She doesn't even need to start a social media company.  There is Parler, Gettr, Gab, Reddit, 4Chan.  She's free to use any of them.
If you can't see the clear connection between American government and American corporations I don't know what to tell you. One says jump and the other says too big to fail.
The best part of this is the same dipshits who railed against the internet being treated as a public utility demand that Twitter gets treated like a public utility.

Leopard keeps eating them faces
Damn this topic is even better than abortion to expose  Republicans. This has you guys so ass backwards that many of you are advocating for heavy government regulations and some of you want straight up nationalization.


I've also heard "they use our internet infrastructure" as if that makes them not a legitimate business.. by the way that's pretty similar to Obama saying "You didn't build that". 


Conservatives really have ZERO consistent values. 


- Discrimination is cool unless it's against me (vaccines). 

- NO GUN CONTROL (unless black people are too uppity, see: Reagan)

- Abortion is murder (unless it's my mistress or daughter, then it's morally justified)

- This is my new favorite: the government should take over a private company so that I can use Twitter.