Title: Do you think people are misusing the term "free speech" as a shield?

Post:
I have been thinking this for a while and in the past few months I have seen debates on free speech on social media. With the current Elon vs Albanese free speech war, it made me wonder what free speech means anymore. 

There is the "Say anything without punishment" free speech and the "Say anything if it is truthful and factual" free speech or the "anarchists free speech" where they complain that a red neck white guy can't say the n-word because it is against free speech and complaining that they should speak out against any politician without consequence, basically the first one but more radical.

I am more of option 2. But if there is misinformation it should be pointed out. With the Elon vs Albanese fsw Elon is basically backing the controversial video of a priest being attacked while also silencing critics against him and his ideas.

Sorry if I rambled too much. Kind of a me thing.

Top Comments:
It's a problem, especially w/bots upvoting and AI/click farms coming in and making comments in support of xyz. or algos pushing preferred vetted content on people.   Boosting of speech ought to be democratic and organic.  If 'birds aren't real'  or 'earth is flat' starts trending and you got bots and AI and foreign actors, and CEO trolls w/custom algos gaming the misinfo....you're giving more 'speech' to certain actors.  I see it similarly to lobbying....one vote ought to be one vote, but we know Exxon's or META's 'money=speech' contributions are much more than any one voter can counter.
We all misuse words all the time. But if there's no dialogue or self awareness, to correct thus,it's just rife for misinterpretation and division.
Obviously. People will say things like "the Earth is flat" and when told they're wrong they will reply "I have a right to free speech!" The two have nothing to do with each other.

People act like "free speech" means "the right to never be told you're wrong." Some even seem to think everyone should have to *actively change their opinion to agree with whatever they say.* If you don't agree with them at the end of a conversation, they say things like "you're not listening to me" or even "you're not letting me talk."

They complain their "free speech rights" are violated whenever their internet comments don't get as many replies or likes as they wanted, or when they post something in violation of a website's user agreement and it gets removed. They will admit they could post it somewhere else without having it removed, but then it might not be seen by as many people as they want (which is, you guessed it, somehow a "free speech violation").
> if there is misinformation it should be pointed out

Without free speech, this can't happen. When misinformation is censored, it continues to circulate colloquially without the opportunity for correction.
I think that we who are free speech supporters just have to accept that the boundaries for what speech should be legally or even socially permissible are going to be contested and difficult. Although free speech is very important, it is not *simple*. We are on a hiding to nothing if we claim permissibility for speech that coordinates murder, or even price fixing collusion. What about speech that tells someone that a glass of liquid is safe, when it is actually known to be poison? On the other hand, it all ends in tears when speech is prohibited whenever authorities believe it is untrue. There are good reasons for legal restrictions on speech to be viewpoint neutral, but it is harder to make the case for social norms to be absolutely viewpoint neutral about speech. It can be frustrating, but our task is not straightforward even though it is crucial for a free society.
I think there are too many idiots who don’t know what free speech functions under the law in how it’s protected and not protected