Title: Telling people who complain about Big Tech‘s censorship “yOu DoN’t HaVe tO uSe ThEm” and that they are private companies who can do as they wish is bullshit, these are public squares and they have a monopoly on public discourse

Post:
People love to tell you how they are private companies and that you don’t have to use them, as if there are any alternatives that come close to the user base, traffic and reach of the big 3.  If you want a post to get seen, to ensure you are reaching a large audience, or even simply to generate small discussion you are basically forced to use one of them or Reddit.  There are zero alternatives that allow for comparable exposure.  

These companies consequently control the entire narrative, and the left-leaning bias and censorship of anything that even remotely conflicts with it has gotten completely out of control. As such they should be broken up and new platforms established in their places with forced impartiality.

Top Comments:
i'm sort of on the fence about this issue, but what drives me nuts is when people act like there is no possible free speech concern to be had, since the 1st amendment only protects against government censorship. 

the first amendment is not the be-all and end-all of free speech. it is valid to be concerned about censorship from private companies, especially when so much public discourse happens online.
Of course those in charge of these social media platforms don't care.  

I recall how much the left was freaking out when Elon might purchase Twitter because it might end their censorship.
I miss when the Internet actually was a public square, and short of things that were blatantly illegal, it was “anything goes” if you could find a little corner of the web to meet with like-minded people (who usually were only like-minded about one topic, and debates happened frequently). I’m talking 20-30 years ago. It was like the Wild West. 

Social media kinda sucks. But all my friends and family are there, so I put up with it to an extent.
The "private companies" have admittedly censored information and people on behalf of the government in an effort to influence (at least) the last presidential election. The argument no longer holds any merit.
This is a problem and it just got a whole lot bigger.  The number of GOVERNMENT officials that are being identified as providing information on 'disinformation' to these platforms during this administration is staggering.  This also effectively negates their claim of only being a private company.  They now become an organ of the "government" and subject to the first amendment.
If the internet or social media gets to the point where it should be treated like a utility, then it isn’t exactly a private business. Especially when the gov try’s to get them to censor on their behalf. As them complying would be them more or less being state actors at that point. In order to avoid all this we need to promote free speech culture every chance we get as its the only way we’ll be able to preserve our rights. If profs would have their way we’d have hate speech legislation.
this is like saying the food at the most popular restaurant has to be food you like, or that it is a public place because of its rate of customers. If a restraunt kicks you out or you don't like the food, fucking leave.
"Guaranteeing exposure" was never part of freedom of speech.  The only reason the big tech companies have such reach is because they built it.

You are still just as free today to go to your actual town square and speak, and get just as much exposure as you would have had if Facebook/Reddit/Twitter never existed.