Title: What is the best way to deal with online censorship?

Post:
I'm having trouble figuring this out. I see several options:

1) government regulates internet censorship to protect online freedom of speech. 
2) government breaks up silicon valley corps citing anti-trust laws
3) government does nothing, and it's up to people to create new platforms, their own servers, etc. 

The biggest problem I see with the third one is that censorship laws can be easily circumvented by corporations deciding to censor - and the biggest problem would be banks. People can create their own platforms, their own servers, etc. But if banks decide to stop working with people with "problematic opinions" then what? What do we do if the banking cartel decides to do something like China's social credit system? You can maybe still talk in person if you aren't under some lockdown, but that still puts people at a huge disadvantage in terms of the information/narrative war. Yeah you can talk to a few people, but the elite can brainwash 10,000 people for every one person you talk to. Idk

Top Comments:
1) I think giving that power to the government would be worse. They're not going to just allow a free for all 4 chan everywhere.

2)I think the problem here is, breaking them up is complicated, and hard to actually split up.

3)Is the way to go. I'm sure hactivists are working towards a more free internet.
I've found if you don't use racist or homophobic slurs you don't actually end  up ever encountering real online censorship outside of isolated communities.
3

And if capital is the problem, use an alternative.

FOSS might be a socialist (decentralised, non-profit) method of doing software, but it works. Cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin might be communist (property of everyone, and yet also no one) but it works.

Putting the two together you can fund and develop any project without having to rely on government issued money. While it's highly unlikely you'll see any monetary profit from it (if you're rolling something out that ensures the freedom of its users, it's going to be a FOSS protocol that allows them to both customise the code and host their own servers), you can at least be sure the value of the project is immense (what is the value of freedom? It's high. It's immeasurable) and thus the immaterial profit is insane.

But you probably won't, because no fast fedbux to be made.
Well decentralized systems are starting to be developed to avoid oligarchy that we have now. Soon no one will be able to censor unless laws are broken and they are held to account for ones own actions. Aws/facebook/twitter ect will eventually lose some power but the more they censor the more they drive people away.
How about publicly traded companies aren’t allowed to censor people?

Or if we require government regulation (like most “libertarians” on this sub seem to think) platforms are held to the same standards as other media companies and if users are publishers, the platform can be held liable for false and libelous claims made by individual contributors.

The problem with platforms is they play the “private company” card when it is convenient and then want protection from liability from its own users when it is convenient.

No censorship makes for the best policy as it adheres to 1st amendment rights, but leftists usually oppose free speech anyway...