Title: Big Tech Censorship is driving polarization

Post:
[Big Tech censorship is driving polarization (msn.com)](https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/opinion/big-tech-censorship-is-driving-polarization/ar-AAY7Mpg?ocid=msedgntp&cvid=3443b4a3f12c41f094f97098dd75ccff)

"After Trump’s election in 2016, leaked video showed Google top executives calling an all hands meeting, saying that society must “work so hard to ensure that … \[the election result\] is a blip, is a hiccup” in “history’s arc towards progress.” At Facebook hidden camera recordings captured content moderator Lara Kontakos bragging that “if someone is wearing a MAGA hat, I am going to delete them for terrorism.” YouTube, for its part, routinely censors and/o rdemonetizes content with libertarian or conservative viewpoints, such as PragerU, Dave Rubin, and Steven Crowder.

There’s more than just anecdotal evidence of this bias. Employees at Netflix (98%), Google (88%), Apple (84%), Facebook (77%), and a litany of other Big Tech sites gave the majority of their campaign contributions to democrats in the 2020 presidential election.

Unsurprisingly, perhaps, this widespread ideological conformity results in tangible differences in how conservative and liberal speech is regulated online. Richard Hanania conducted a study for Quillete in 2019 that found “of 22 prominent, politically active individuals who are known to have been suspended \[on Twitter\] since 2005 and who expressed a preference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, 21 supported Donald Trump.”

As a result of all this, fully 90% of conservatives aren't confident that social media companies are fair and unbiased in content moderation, and many are flocking to alternatives such as Gab, Parler, or Truth Social. This is profoundly dangerous for our democracy. People already consume different news, engage with different communities, and are increasingly detached from one another’s baseline realities. Social media has served as a last bastion of cross-partisan discussion and debate. But if conservatives continue to be muzzled on Twitter and divorce themselves from the site en masse, we would be, even more than today, a society divided.

I don't think the election was fraudulent. But if there ever were a stolen election, wouldn’t we want the losing side to be able to air their claims publicly in the marketplace for ideas? Even if we’re confident in our response to the pandemic, shouldn’t we let doctors-turned-politicians like Rand Paul make the argument that certain policies are counterproductive?

For our polity to survive, we must revert to the old ethos of combating bad ideas with good ones, harking back to the days of Jewish ACLU lawyers who fought for Nazis right to protest. By suppressing and banning speech, you don’t get rid of it; you just force it elsewhere and divide civil society."

That last line is so critical to understand. For well intentioned censorship advocates.

So I have the longstanding habit of subscribing to every political community to see issues from as many sides as possible. I have thus been subscribed to the community that supports our last president for the whole time it has existed.

So, those guys used to be kind of funny. Like funny in a good way. They were once good natured and playful. Go look at them now. Since Reddit banned this community, they migrated to a platform that we cannot name on Reddit. This is radicalizing them. They are an intense echo chamber now.

Big tech censorship radicalized them. They no longer trust any outside sources, they are completely impervious to anything that contradicts their narrative. That is what happens when you deplatform and censor people. They do not go away. They become more radicalized. Studies have confirmed this.

This is why we need the 21st century free speech act now.

\-addendum

Reddit censored this post when I first posted it, this is due to the fact that the quoted text includes hyperlinks that Reddit disengenuosly uses their spam filter to censor. The hyperlinks are in the linked article. Shame on you Reddit. I had to remove all hyperlinks because reddit does not provide a list of which hyperlinks warrant automatic removal of a post. I dare you to ban the Examiner Admins.

It is a newsguard green rated source.

Also, If I did not use the 3rd party app reveddit, I would not have been aware of Reddits censorship of my post.

Top Comments:
> Since Reddit banned this community, they migrated to a platform that we cannot name on Reddit.

Oh come on, there are ways to do so, this is senselessly dramatic.

It doesn't have to be a direct link.
>But if there ever were a stolen election, wouldn’t we want the losing side to be able to air their claims publicly in the marketplace for ideas?

I remember years and years of screeching about "Russian Collusion," now followed by years and years of "if you question the election you're a terrorist."
Lol do you dummies think you have a right to twitter accounts?

A country where we don't have the right to Healthcare or shelter or food, and you think we have the right to twitter? 

Lol good luck
Youtube and Facebook have both been shown to be drivers or right wing radicalization regardless of any desire for a leadership change they had in 2020. If it was Jeb Bush or any other "sane" Republican these donation statistics would be wildly different. Scientifically right wing beliefs have been shown to correlate with fear and sense of aggrievement. It doesn't change these companies' business models.
You have the carriage before the horse.  They were ostracized because they were radicalized and refused to accept any form of reality that contradicted their prescribed narrative.  Haven't had a rational conversation with a 'conservative' in over a decade.  They refuse to use sources and deny facts regularly.
> So, those guys used to be kind of funny. Like funny in a good way. They were once good natured and playful. Go look at them now. Since Reddit banned this community, they migrated to a platform that we cannot name on Reddit. _This is radicalizing them._ They are an intense echo chamber now.

I think you're ignoring all the (mostly normal) folks that did not migrate to the other platform; what we've seen (repeatedly) is that the folks who migrate are more extreme _before_ they migrate. The end result is a more extreme group but it's also a smaller group.

> Big tech censorship radicalized them. 

No.

While a smaller, more extreme group will have a larger effect on radicalization, _they were radicalized before_ they migrated. They're likely becoming more radicalized, but not increasing their numbers more than they would have on Reddit.

Sunshine is the best disinfectant. We'd have been better off and will be better off if they were allowed to speak more broadly.

> This is why we need the 21st century free speech act now.

I wasn't familiar with that, so I looked it up:

https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/1384/text

"To repeal section 230 of the Communications Act of 1934 and ensure reasonable, non-discriminatory access to online communications platforms."

Oh, hell no. Section 230 _protects free speech_. The suggested replacement is worse, not better: it makes companies responsible for what users and other companies write, and would thus increase both government censorship and private censorship.

That's not sunshine. That's napalm.