Title: In Defense of “Misinformation”. Restrictions of scientific free speech will inevitably lead to restriction of any speech deemed detrimental to freedom.

Post:


Top Comments:
riddle: benefitting from free speech rush limbaugh said “leave only some liberals left alive”

ann coulter said “we should shoot a few to let the rest know it can happen to them”

trump retweeted “the only good democrat is a dead democrat”

how much freedom of speech does a “dead democrat” have?

if you defend the freedom of speech of people who talk about denying other people any speech at all…..are you an idiot?
On the subject of restricting free speech, I wouldn't mind seeing some regulations passed to limit astroturfing, paid speech masquerading as individuals from agenda driven organizations. Also an end to Cable News commentary where they program people instead of inform them.
Consider that Slander and Libel if not regulated can heavily influence commerce. The same can be said for medical misinformation.
Free speech is the obvious one, the bigger picture is if the established media loses control of their medium, that becomes a massive societal change. 

It is entirely possible that in 10-20 years any reporters outlets are very small, who upload and write somewhere such as substack. 

It is entirely possible that in 10-20 years the 6AM, 3PM, and 5PM news disappears entirely. That is a billions of dollars on the line and I can't wait for it to happen.
As I like to say, "It is misinformation and hate speech today, anything that goes against the government/media narrative tomorrow".
"content moderation" is a newspeak euphemism for book burning. If they can decide what you see and hear, they can decide what you are allowed to think.
“In defense of “misinformation”” don’t defend liars and grifters. If the information isn’t true nobody should hear about it and anyone who knowingly spreads it is scum
The problem is that the people taking advantage of the misinformation are the ones defending their right to make it and also currently proposing book burnings in at least two states.  Republicans have seized control of most of the US media; OAN, Fox News, 70% of local news stations, and they say any non-right wing owned media outlets are illegitimate.  If we don't curb misinformation, all news will be misinformation.