Title: Why Big Tech Censorship is bad.

Post:
To all those on the left laughing, what makes you so sure that a corporate oligarchy won't come after people who think the corporations are the arch enemy of society?

corporations are rulers that are not elected, do not lead, do not protect, and have no grand purpose or vision in mind for the people within their influence. If not kept in check they become parasites that hold all the benefits and perks of power but bear none of the responsibility.

And to all of those on the right boot licking and supporting those corporations,

History has shown that that 95% free market with only the 5% most curcial regulations is more effective then 100% free market. Anti-monopoly and free speech protections often fall into that 5%.

Giant monopolies are bad for the free market and need some level of oversight. In the case of Twitter, it's become so big that it's basically the new public square. Banning someone from Twitter is the modern equivalent of banning someone from standing on the street corner with a sign.

The distinction between a government" and a "business" is that businesses have alternatives, and you have a choice about dealing with them.

Monopolies and cartels are effectively governments.

In other words,

the real problem is the fact that things like google and twitter and many other large internet corporations have become so integrated into the lives of most people that they feel more like public utilities than private corporations.

Twitter controls the flow of information. They are the modern public square. They may as well be the government.

Private corporations can abuse power and opress you too. Corporations can censor your speech too , And when they are monopolies there's no difference between them and a government .

something being private doesn't make it inherently good, the point of something being private is to escape the tyranny of the State not to create your own private tyranny.

You can have a private tyranny, a private government, a private military, a private dictator.

Are you gonna give them a free pass on being a tyrant because they're a "private"

Freedom needs to be protected from governments and private governments. Stop boot licking it.

and when you remove the capability for you opposition to speak and resolve problems peacefully, the only recourse left is to be heard by force unfortunately.

https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/fueling-terror-how-extremists-are-made/

https://www.thoughtco.com/the-yakuza-organized-crime-195571

'

So let the conservatives go to Parler right. Oh but now they are going after the servers Parler is hosted on. But just get different servers right. And now they are going after the isp but just put up different satellites right. Where does it stop? When you eventually say just find another country?

'

[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jzUcG90wA\_OrUK\_DSbqHSDg1nmaPuZTT7Jo4Ic6XcuI](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jzUcG90wA_OrUK_DSbqHSDg1nmaPuZTT7Jo4Ic6XcuI/edit?usp=sharing)

Top Comments:
Why private companies should not be allowed the right to free association: WALL OF TEXT

Man i feel like i went back a few years and am hearing from r/politics on the wedding cake again.
I don't have a twitter account.  Never did.  Please explain how *being put on my level* is some sort of rights violation.  Have I denied myself a fundamental right?
I think you guys are struggling because you have no rights-based argument here whatsoever.  Like all of us *feel like* if freedom of association is going to give us bad consequences, it feels like it is not real freedom.  I can't bitch out loud about the cops who are clients on our floor, or when my ex jumped to call people sexist, I would have outright lost the relationship if I said to cut the crap.  (I should have said to cut the crap.)  The arguments that are to be made involve *what our culture should be,* but nobody has the right to win the culture war, or more pertinently, *not to lose it.*
All these threads make the republican party feel like it's one bad day from going full authoritarian socialist and taking control of businesses for the people.
Its actions by private companies to control what they host on their platform. How can you call yourself a libertarian and oppose that?
Hey OP, how the hell is Twitter a monopoly when you have Facebook, Reddit, Instagram, Pinterest, Various Emails, Various chat sites, Parler, etc?

The fact that ALL of them decided to ban someone tells you more about that person and less about the Tech Companies. Seriously, this is like all the countries getting together and deciding "Woah we all have our differences but fuck that guy"