Title: The whole Twitter fiasco shows that the left is the greatest threat to Free Speech

Post:
For years the left has censored and shadow banned or outright banned people on social media for saying things that go contrary to left wing ideology. Anything concerning the negative effects or the lunacy/criticism of certain topics like immigration, crime, race, Islam, LGBTQXYZ ect has been supressed.

Now that Twitter will supposedly allow free speech again - the left screeches and cries and tries to prevent this. This shows that it is them who are the greatest enemy to free speech.

Top Comments:
Twitter is a private company and liberals can go elsewhere if they don't like it. Kind of like what liberals have been telling conservatives to do for the last 5+ years.
You should see the german media, the journalists there are on a rampage against Musk and that he bought Twitter. Like he would be Hitler, Stalin and Mao all in one person. It's a real shitshow there, they see freedom of speech as dangerous because they are about to lose their monopol for propaganda.
It's establishment versus the rest. Notice that Julian Assange, Chelsea Manning, and Edward Snowden, etc. challenges power and are persecuted for it. 

The left and right have partisan cheerleaders so it's better to recognize our government is facilitating censorship of anti establishment voices instead of pointing at left or right as the problem.
"In the end the Party would announce that two and two made five, and you would have to believe it. It was inevitable that they should make that claim sooner or later: the logic of their position demanded it. Not merely the validity of experience, but the very existence of external reality was tacitly denied by their philosophy."  -- George Orwell, 1984.
Stop being selective lol. I will agree some parts of the left are authoritarian but lets not pretend like the right is a paragon of virtue here. 

6% of the population(far right) don't support it and neither does Donald Trump and a significant chunk of his supporters.
When it came to banning rocknroll and Howard Stern, eminem, both sides were in on the rhetoric. Both sides are guilty. I like seeing it become an issue again, but it seems all politicians have a line drawn on permissible speech that expands beyond imminent harm and the ability to consent.
Do private companies have the right to moderate the content on their property?

You guys must be outraged that nickelodeon doesn't allow pornography on their comment sections
The left doesn’t GAF about Twitter. Most of the left isn’t ON Twitter.
  
You doofs confuse a vocal minority on social media and news agencies pushing clickbait as a real representing if folks opinion.
  
Elon (if the deal even goes through, it’s now in question) WILL LEARN that people WILL ABANDON SHIP when you allow things like baby rape erotica to be posted. 
  
Anyone older than 40 can tell you that every forum without moderation
Eventually turns into a haven for pedos and Nazis.