Title: Online Censorship’s Institutional Power: The converging interests of technocrats, media, and academia, as seen through the lens of the world’s most deplatformed US-legal website

Post:


Top Comments:
> One rich person is on a crusade to destroy Kiwi Farms, and it matters for free speech.

The saga of Kiwi Farms extends much farther than “one rich person.” [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kiwi_Farms?wprov=sfti1#Christchurch_mosque_shootings) has a great write up on it. 

It’s also worth noting that Kiwi Farms is not currently deplateformed.
Obviously it's a long saga. I was asked for a short summary of the article. They are not *currently* deplatformed, but it has happened repeatedly, and some people are still trying.
> Obviously it's a long saga. I was asked for a short summary of the article. They are not currently deplatformed, but it has happened repeatedly, and some people are still trying.

Boiling it down to “a rich person hates us” really doesn’t capture the story, though. The article you attached is written by someone in favor of Kiwi Farms and positions themselves accordingly. The bias is dripping with every jot and tittle.
>written by someone in favor of Kiwi Farms

It's written by the guy who *runs* Kiwi farms. It's a first-person account, so I don't think it's fair to call it "biased."
> It's written by the guy who runs Kiwi farms. It's a first-person account, so I don't think it's fair to call it "biased."

Since when are first person accounts not considered biased?
Because it's only trivially true. Everyone is "biased" about their own experience, so accusing someone of bias when they are telling their story is just dumb. If you can show that his account is incorrect or incomplete, please do so, but whining about "bias" says nothing.
> Because it's only trivially true. Everyone is "biased" about their own experience, so accusing someone of bias when they are telling their story is just dumb. If you can show that his account is incorrect or incomplete, please do so, but whining about "bias" says nothing

It’s acknowledging the person telling the story has a vested interest in presenting themselves in the best possible light. Bias is important to acknowledge whenever present. It’s a known problem with memoirs and autobiographies. I believe this is no different. Particularly when you take into account the history of Kiwi Farms, and the actions taken by users there.