Title: How to get Banned

Post:
What's poppin', Libertarians. Tony here,

So, you may know me as that one guy who complained about r/Politics a week or so ago. Well, now I'm back with something completely different: I got banned from r/Conservative! Yay!!!!!!!

So, how did this happen? What kind of abhorrent shit could get somebody banned on a Conservative subreddit? After all, Conservatives are the ones that say that somebody's feelings don't matter in a debate, that people should just "suck it up". What then, did I do? Well, I called somebody a dickhead. Quite ironic, when you think of it.

So, earlier today, I was arguing with a user about Islam. He said that Islam contributed nothing to society, while I said that we have a lot to thank Islam for. Stuff like, I don't know, the fucking Arabic number system. That's where the dickhead comment came in, as the thought of somebody being so ignorant as to not know that out number system was created by the Muslims was so abstract in my mind that I, you know, called him an absolute troglodyte. The other thing that the mods specifically pointed out to me was me telling him to "open your eyes". Funny thing, he said the exact same thing to me. I was using that statement to mock him for his whackass statements about Islam. I complain a lot about the lack of situational awareness on the internet. But damn, if this doesn't take the fucking cake.

So I got banned for 1) saying a no-no word, and 2) Being completely rhetorical to point out how stupid someone was being. Does this warrant the ban? Considering that my response was a paragraph-long assertation on why, yes, Islam did do good stuff, and that the mods could only cherry-pick two things from that, I would say no. But hey, they swung the ban-hammer anyways, and here I am. I have messaged the mods, but have got no response, and I assume that's how it'll stay. In summary, calling Islam, and I quote, "humanity's biggest mistake" is absolutely fine by the mods' rules. But calling someone a naughty word, morally deplorable.

So, this all just leaves me to speculate. Why did I actually get banned? I followed all the rules, and what I said was completely minor compared to the caliber of most internet debates. Well, I was going through my inbox when I noticed something, shall I say, peculiar. You see, I made my statement about Islam seven hours ago as of writing this, and my ban notice was sent to me two hours ago. Considering that they only needed to find two phrases to warrant obliterating my right to ever say anything there, a five hour difference is a bit strange, but whatever. Somebody just thought that my grave offense of using a naughty word online needed to be seen by someone, and that just happened to get me banned. I did get a response from the mods, which basically says "HAH! Fuck you, shoulda sent us his offense instead of defending your right to say something" So, I'm definitely never allowed back there.

As you've all seen, I make myself a lot of enemies. This will be my main avenue of discussing politics now. I can't wait for my account to get banned here after a week or so when I say something fucking stupid. But for now, I'll cherish every moment I get to be with a community as great as the one on r/Libertarian. This is meant as a cautionary tale. To any redditor currently on r/Conservative: Don't say anything bad, no wrongthink. In a debate, your opponents can spew as much bullshit as they want. However, the moment you call them a name, fucking banned. So much for "suck it up and take the insults". So, That's my story. Don't be an idiot like I am

Sincerely,

Tony Gunk

Top Comments:
Update: I pointed out to the mods that my comments should've been protected under the "I am thin-skinned" rule, and guess what?! Fucking muted. Now, I can't say anything on the subreddit, and I can't defend myself to the mods since they won't hear my logic. I love corruption!