Title: Free speech has always been a left-wing cause, and for very good reason.

Post:
Free speech has [always](https://jacobin.com/2019/01/eugene-debs-free-speech-civil-liberties) [been](https://jacobin.com/2022/08/salman-rushdie-stabbing-free-speech-socialist-politics-progressive-value) a left-wing cause, and for very good reason. Strategically, the idea of trusting reigning institutions to decide which views are “safe” enough to express is a very bad bet for anyone with a radical critique of the status quo. And in principle, you can’t both believe that ordinary working-class people are capable of self-government and think benevolent technocrats need to decide which points of view they get to hear for their own good.

In the early 1900s, when the radical labor unionists of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) would come to a new town to organize, they would wage what they called “[free speech fights](https://nvdatabase.swarthmore.edu/content/industrial-workers-world-campaigns-free-speech-spokane-washington-usa-1908-1910)” until they were allowed to say. The newspaper of anti-lynching crusader and NAACP cofounder Ida B. Wells was called the *Memphis Free Speech*. Wells and the IWW knew what they were doing

Pro Palestine protesters are bravely telling the truth about what American bombs are being used to do to these people despite their demonization in legacy media by the powers that be. 

Should protesters be allowed to exercise their First Amendment rights? Most, if asked directly, will say yes. A few principled ones will even rush to the aid of protesters whose message they find disagreeable, defending their right to say it.

The supposed champions of free speech - who loudly decry "cancel culture" and rail against content moderation on social media - have fallen conspicuously silent when it comes to Palestine protests. Their passionate defenses of open discourse seem to vanish when students and activists exercise their First Amendment rights to criticize Israeli military actions or express solidarity with Palestinians. This selective application of free speech principles reveals that for many self-proclaimed free speech warriors, the real concern isn't protecting open discourse - it's protecting specific ideological positions while suppressing others.

Those who say no will no doubt struggle to square their position with their stance on free speech. Watching them perform those mental gymnastics is extraordinarily illuminating about the real reasons for cracking down on theprotests. 

Top Comments:
Concentrated power, whether left or right, always tries to suppress the speech of opponents. Always. The examples you cite, Ida B. Wells and the IWW, were far from power in their time. Their political descendants among the socialists and progressives, having achieved power, found free speech inconvenient.
You miss the point. It's not a left vs. right cause, it's an underdog cause. Fundamentally, most people don't seem to care about freedom of speech the moment something they disagree with gets said. It is whoever has less power than the establishment that tends to truly care about it. The establishment has changed between "left" and "right" quite a lot, and so it gets associated with one or the other depending on the time period. I also don't fundamentally believe in left and right when it comes to politics, but that's for another discussion altogether.
You are correct. Free speech is about distributing power downwards. Its about the little people, the workers, the marginalised, the abused, advocate for themselves and their position.

To the right, "free speech" is about persecuting people they dont like. Removing power from the little man. Crushing unions. Marginalising and ostracising people from undesirable groups. Giving billionaires the ultimate power over the flow of information to the peasants.
No it doesn't. AI text has a very distinct feel to it, and this is not what it looks like.
Historically speaking, left-leaning organizations, activists, and individuals have gone out of their ways to oppose restrictions on speech, including speech they hate. The ACLU defended the Nazis in Skokie, submitted an amicus brief in support of the Westboro Baptist Church’s military-funeral protests, argued against the application of France’s anti-Nazi/hate laws to the internet in the US, and even defended the Charlottesville white supremacists’ right to protest. 

The right has advocated for or passed book-banning laws, restricted access to sexually explicit material, stripped rights from protesters in part by expanding the definition of “riot” (among other things), and more. I agree that liberals and some leftists have become censorious. But it’s disingenuous to argue that cultural pressure is on par with literal laws that forbid, for example, teaching certain viewpoints or even facts in schools. The right has proposed and passed such laws. 

Liberals have retreated from free speech, and I hate that left-leaning people (I’m trying to not conflate leftists and liberals, but it’s hard to do here) and organizations have ceded the issue to the libertarian right because now the right looks like the free-speech party when it isn’t. But the ACLU did [change](https://www.wsj.com/public/resources/documents/20180621ACLU.pdf) the way it balances speech rights with other concerns when deciding which cases to take, and that did hurt its credibility as a defender of speech. When the ACLU does that, what incentive does any other organization have to defend speech it doesn’t like just on principle. 

Still, speech has been a left-wing issue for the most part. It is often historically linked to union organizing, for example. Let’s not allow the last, like, ten years to erase hundreds of years of good work done by leftists to advance speech rights.
You’re getting downvoted. For telling people exactly how they voted. 

His own supporters bought tickets and hotels to watch him enter office on tv with the rest of us. As he gives those seats to billionaires from tech and the media next to cabinet members. It’s so obvious where his loyalty lies.