Title: 90% of people have no idea what free speech is

Post:
Free speech is your right to say what you want. If you get criticised, protested against, fired from your job, called out on social media, or cast out of society as a whole, those are all people collectively using their right to free speech i.e. their right to criticise YOUR free speech. 

Here in Germany we have *some* actual restrictions on free speech (you cannot do the sieg heil motion, fly the Nazi flag or deny the holocaust). In America, I can only think of two threats against free speech. 

1. Censorship by the government over the anti-Israeli „BDS“ movement.
2. The old administration attacking peaceful protestor on the WH lawn with tear gas for a photo op, literally denying them their right to protest. 

Not to mention Trump wanted to make a law that punished burning the flag with jail time. THAT is an actual free speech issue.

„Cancel culture“ is that, it is culture. If people tell you to shut the fuck up, you aren’t denied your free speech, they merely are exercising theirs.

Top Comments:
But when people are attacked physically or in a fiscal way (losing their job for something said while off the job) that is not just "telling someone to shut up on the internet"
Looks like you're part of that 90%.

First, take a look at yourself.  Do you adamantly support the freedom of people who you vehemently disagree with to express their views without fear of retaliation?  Of course you don't.  You want rights for me and not for thee, so your contorted definition of "free speech" is designed to make your speech free and your opponents' speech suppressed.  People who support free speech don't cling to the "*technically* that's not illegal suppression of free speech, because of loopholes in how we can get away with suppressing it" arguments.

Some of us actually support free speech.  *Especially* for people who disagree with us; that's what free speech *is.*  You're right that Trump trying to ban flag burning is anti-free speech.  If your definition of free speech changes depending on whether it's left-wing speech or right-wing speech, *you don't support free speech.*

Let's start with why free speech is important: science, human rights, and human progress.  From Galileo making the offensive and blasphemous claim that the Church was wrong, to Martin Luther doing the same thing, to his namesake MLK making the offensive and politically incorrect claim that whites were not superior to blacks, to Einstein daring to suggest that Newtonian mechanics was flawed, the most important new ideas that move humanity forward are *always* offensive, blasphemous, politically incorrect, and unpopular with the public, at first.  Free speech allows these things to come forward.  Lack of free speech means that heliocentrism spends 100 years getting stuffed in Copernicus's closet and doesn't change the world because he isn't willing to suffer for it.

What part of that makes you think it's only bad if the government suppresses it?  There weren't multinational mega-media companies and social media cancel mobs when the Constitution was drafted; free speech is protected from the government because the government was the only credible threat to it at the time, not because it was okay to threaten it with other things.  (Incidentally, the one type of cancel mob that they knew of, which was religious mobs, *were* protected against with the Freedom of Religion.)

So when the next Galileo needs to present an offensive new world-changing idea that isn't okay with the woke crowd, humanity doesn't move forward if he's intimidated out of doing it because it was a business or a mob that threatened him instead of the government.  We don't get to benefit from those ideas if we only threatened him with violence and poverty instead of imprisonment.  **If he's afraid to share his ideas because of what we'll do to him if he offends us, society loses.**

Free speech means that people should be able to speak freely without fear of retribution - regardless of what form that retribution takes, or whether it comes from the government, a business, or an individual.  It's not magic; it's a principle that allows new ideas and honest democracy in our society.  If you're afraid to let others speak and think we need to live in a police state that intimidates and suppresses anyone who tries to disagree with you, at least be honest about it.
Freedom of speech and expression isn’t just a protection from Government but also a moral/social value. There’s a difference there.

I think that’s what people mean when they champion freedom of expression, it’s not just freedom of expression without expression, it’s freedom to communicate with everyone around them
Free speech is: I don’t agree with your opinion but I respect it / best I can do is try to convince you person of something else but trying to get you fired ist just shitty and toxic.
Wanna know good free speech?

This post is a shit take and the mods haven't removed it, because it's still on topic.
"Free speech is your right to say what you want. If you get criticised, protested against" yeah seems logic go on

&#x200B;

"fired from your job, called out on social media, or cast out of society as a whole" BRO WTF
I argued on some people in r/politics about cancel culture and free speech they said the exact same thing  that you just said cancel culture is when you end someone's livelyhood it's named cancel culture because  they  cancel you for having a different opinion or doing something that signifies that  now when you end someone's job you end their life   now cancel culture is a mob of people who basically control the persons life via the coorp that runs that person and  that's    a dictatorship and it's really just discrimination companies have no legal right to do this shit
If cancel culture consisted of people expressing their view there wouldn’t be an issue but that’s  not what cancel culture is. It’s when people get fired, lose opportunities, get doxxed, targeted by government agencies like the IRS, get shot in their driveway, surrounded by a mob while walking down a street while they shout that they’re going to rape your wife, deny service to you, don’t allow you to eat peacefully in a restaurant, go after your kids, and write false stories just because of the views you express. Name one of the above examples and I’ll give you an example of when it really did occur. 

Personally, as a libertarian yeah I’d allow people to burn flags and simply push against it verbally.  That said I wouldn’t call Trump a tyrant for wanting to create laws against burning the flag. It comes down to an interesting question that I still debate with my self to this day. Does the American founding allow for it’s own destruction? An easy example of this would be using courts as a replacement to the legislative branch rather than addressing constitutional amendments themselves. This seems to be tolerated today but shouldn’t be tolerated because there is a clear process for adding or purging an amendment. On the other hand, there’s another easy one. Can I speak out against the government? Of course, because that is considered to be an other method in which change is accessible to average the person. Now what about espionage, misinformation campaigns, and ideological subversion? What about the destruction of American symbols/values? People who gain access to national security information eventually realize that those two questions become synonymous. Yet, a law for one would be constitutional and in line with the original intentions of our founders but a law for the other would not. At the same time both exist in the same space. 

My view is that you can tackle the first question in a targeted and isolated way while preserving the right answer for the second. In the end, I find it interesting that you find the what if’s of Trump more relevant than the actually did’s of the left.


I’ll also add the following. The BDS movement is anti-Semitic. Within their propaganda it cites the very existence of the Jewish state as oppression. Therefore religious protection does apply. Secondly, tear gas for a photo op was the propaganda narrative for the left and not the reality. Due to the security risks protestors created the area was going to be cleared before they had even decided to take that walk to the church. People therefore told to move back but refused and instead threw objects at police. I seriously don’t see how that’s comparable to the wall democrats have created around D.C. The attack on the Capitol is another fake narrative that was successful mostly because of censorship. Right before the incident nearly conservative social media accounts had already begun to be banned in mass and right after the numbers bans increased exponentially. Unlike the Nick Sandmann Hoax, Jussie Smollet Hoax, and every prior hoax there wasn’t anyone to dispute the narrative. The reality is that the real insurrectionists and murderers were let out of jail and paid by media companies hundreds of thousands of dollars for their footage. The famous example would be Antifa Leader John Sullivan. Meanwhile, all of the Trump supporters who were waved in by Capitol police were tracked down and charged with trespassing. I wonder why they weren’t charged with sedition? If you watch John Sullivan’s film you’ll see that it was his group that broke in though the windows and there wasn’t a single Trump supporter with him. Making things worse the woman who was killed named Babbitt was part of the group that was waved in but she got stuck in the first group which broke in. Watch the video and you’ll she that she never broke glass and unlike what the media said she didn’t attempt to jump in the hallway. Look closely at her waist and you’ll see a man from the 1st group suddenly pick her up and that’s when she was shot, that’s when she was murdered.
Op is, ironically, one of the people that does not understand what free speech is.

Squelching someone's speech is NOT, itself, free speech.

Doing concrete damage to someone to try and control, or punish them for what they say is an action. An abusive one. It is directly AGAINST free speech.

Cancel Culture is anti-free speech. They use terrorist actions to squelch free speech. Directly, concretely attacking and damaging someone's life.

They are not offering opinions, they are directly harming or threatening harm because of someone else's speech.

Saying "shut up" is free speech, but that is NOT what Cancel Culture is.