Title: Free speech isn't partisan

Post:
I'm seeing this sub dominated by complaints that the left doesn't care about free speech and all that jazz, and I don't trust the Dems either, but there are a couple of important nuances here and I'm very concerned by the apparent belief that the right wing is free from censorship or is strong in this area.

There are at least three kinds of things referenced by the phrase "free speech", with different considerations:

1) actual constitutional free speech. The US Constitution says, and this is from memory so please do correct me, simply that no act of Congress shall restrict the rights to free speech or assembly except in the case of endangerment of others (you can't use free speech to falsely cry fire in a crowded theater). This has NOTHING to do with social media unless it's the government doing the banning. It gets contentious around stuff like anti-bullying laws because emotional harm is harder to prove. Generally, I believe the government should stay out of that stuff as it is too easy to abuse. Notice that "decency laws" are a violation of constitutional rights here, such as when the court struck down the attempt by Nashville to ban drag.


2) corporate censorship. This includes social media. Private companies can generally do what they want. They are tyrants and don't have rights. Being banned on Twitter or Reddit or Facebook isn't about the Constitution or free speech in that sense at all. The only thing that protects your "free speech" in this arena are anti-discrimination laws or voluntary company policies. BUT the danger here is there can be clandestine government censorship, where certain things are strongly encouraged or mandated to be removed without disclosure to the public. And, corporate agendas are their own danger that isn't very protected against right now.


3) cancel culture. This gets called a "free speech" issue all the time and it's a much fuzzier thing. If you find something annoying or offensive, you can just not buy it. Don't like that Disney has gone woke? Don't buy their movies. That's it. That's cancel culture. I don't want to buy Harry Potter stuff any more so I don't. It's gotten twisted into a weird thing where people are saying that it's somehow immoral to say to others why you won't go to a show. How is it different to say, "I won't go to Harry Potter because it's TERF stuff", vs "I won't go to Marvel because they're woke", vs "I won't go to Jurassic Park XLVII because the franchise has jumped the shark"? It's all just values in action. We all vote with our wallets. It's fine. 

My concern is that ALL popular platforms exercise censorship and the people who use them convince themselves that the one they tend to agree with is the one that is more free, because they don't personally get posts banned on it. This may be leading increasingly to echo chambers where all the conservatives use Twitter and the liberals use Bluesky or whatever. 

IMO we desperately need to recognize corporate censorship as the on-fire danger that it is and make distributed or otherwise censorship-resistant platforms a priority to build momentum around. Twitter is NOT censorship-free and it is literally government media now. Facebook/Insta are no better. Reddit seems better on the surface because of distributed moderation but there is also centralized moderation so it is no better.

Thank you for attending my TED talk.

TL;DR - the real danger is corporate and government abuse of power in internet discussion and this is not a problem unique to either political party or any particular platform.

Top Comments:
I'll give a half-defense of "echo chambers" - I think it's bad if they're the only possible options available, but it's reasonable for them to exist. It may not be strictly *good* for a person to choose to spend their time in one, but it's at worst only bad in the way that people have always been allowed to do things with their time that aren't strictly the best things they could be doing.

Personally, I prefer spending time in spaces with at least some balance of contrasting opinions, but I can respect that someone else might feel differently. If someone wants to spend most or all of their time in a space where only people with similar opinions to them are allowed to speak, well... I think it's really their choice, just like it's their choice if they want to eat nothing but McDonalds or spend all their time watching TV and nothing else.
Honestly, I can only hope that points 2 and 3 lead to the complete death of social media, but I won't hold my breath.

Tribals are gonna tribal, and not one of them give a rip about actual free speech for anyone but their own tribe.
Both sides censor. It’s only when they become a victim of censorship themselves that they claim to care about free speech
It's not partisan, but reddit in general definitely does tend to lean left - especially on the big and popular subs. A lot of people (myself included) found this sub after being banned from another for unwelcomed conservative takes. So this sub probably leans more right than others, so you're probably gonna see more complaints about the left. But yes, free speech isn't partisan. Many of us are just salty because of power-tripping liberal mods.
You're conflating free Speech with the first amendment.

The Constitution does not protect free speech on private property, but free speech on private property is still worth protecting.
I would support temporarily suspending free speech if it meant ensuring a future where our kids arenas subjected to T brainwqshing
There's a difference between "I don't like this film director's political views so I'm not going to watch his movie in the cinemas" and "I don't like this film director's political views so I'm going to band up with likeminded people and petition to have him fired from his job
yeah I think it's been a sickness of the Internet since the early days of chat, that we get opinions detached from any kind of sustained relationship or community or more universal forms of connection to temper them.