Title: Social Media Censorship in the Time of Coronavirus: A Net Failure

Post:
It is likely that if you had not heard of coronavirus before January 23, 2020, you found out soon after the first lockdown. That is now a historically significant date in Wuhan, a city of over 11 million people in Hubei province, China. The entry for that day in the Associated Press’s *Timeline: China’s COVID-19 Outbreak and Lockdown of Wuhan* is brief, but dramatic:

>— Jan. 23: The Wuhan lockdown begins with a notice sent to people’s smartphones at 2 a.m. announcing the airport and train and bus stations will be shut at 10 a.m. Construction begins on the first of two hastily built field hospitals as thousands of patients overwhelm the city’s health care system. Eventually, most of the rest of Hubei province would be locked down, affecting 56 million people. (2021)

It is hard to read those words today without understanding how ominous they are, but it is even harder to imagine that anyone learning about those events would not be immediately alarmed about the severity of the novel coronavirus and an imminent pandemic. 40,000 people had already travelled from China to the United States in the weeks between when the outbreak was first reported in Wuhan and the time the February 2, 2020 travel ban was put into place – and scientists think that Covid had been circulating for at least a month before that. (Bollysky & Nuzzo, 2020) The disease was spreading rapidly through the passenger population of the cruise ship Princess Diamond, from 10 cases on February 10, 2020 to 691 cases and several dead by February 23, 2020. (Nakazawa et al 2020)

It is impossible to ignore the gravity implied by these facts and figures. Yet people in the United States were not alarmed: public officials were telling everyone that the situation was under control and that there was nothing to worry about. Coronavirus censorship was the first official response to the disease and has been part of public policy throughout the pandemic. The Covid pandemic policy of utilizing social media censorship to combat the spread of misinformation was a net failure.

The outbreak in Wuhan had begun with the notorious censorship of Dr. Li Wenliang, who tried to use social media to warn his colleagues about the new disease:

>On 30 December, Li Wenliang, a young ophthalmologist in Wuhan, China, posted a message to colleagues that tried to call attention to a severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-like illness that was brewing in his hospital. The Chinese government abruptly deleted the post, accusing Li of rumour-mongering. On 7 February, he died of COVID-19. (Larson, 2020)

While Li was being arrested and forced by Chinese party officials to sign a disciplinary document, Wuhan’s crowded Chinese New Year celebration plans went forward. Though Dr. Li had tried to sound the alarm via social media, the knowledge that human-to-human transmission of the new SARS-like pneumonia was occurring was kept secret until January 20th, when it was finally publicly acknowledged by a top epidemiologist in China. (Zhong, 2021)

Pandemic censorship is nothing new. In fact, according to Barry writing in *The Smithsonian*, the 1918 Spanish Flu got its name from censorship. Countries engaged in fighting World War One were censoring news about the deadly new influenza to protect domestic morale, but the newspapers of Spain were free to report on it and consequently the world thought of the disease as being “Spanish.” (2017) One of the belligerents in World War One was the United States, which was also censoring influenza information during the war. Barry writes:

>What proved even more deadly was the government policy toward the truth. When the United States entered the war, Woodrow Wilson demanded that “the spirit of ruthless brutality...enter into the very fibre of national life.” So he created the Committee on Public Information, which was inspired by an adviser who wrote, “Truth and falsehood are arbitrary terms....The force of an idea lies in its inspirational value. It matters very little if it is true or false.”  
>  
>Against this background, while influenza bled into American life, public health officials, determined to keep morale up, began to lie. (2017)

Those health officials included Philadelphia’s health director Wilmer Krusen, who decided to lie to the public about the severity of the outbreak of the new disease in the Navy Yard, brought there by a Navy ship from Boston. While the disease killed scores of sailors, Krusen continued to tell the public that the outbreak was under control and “Each day newspapers assured readers that influenza posed no danger.” (Barry, 2017)  Health officials weren’t the only ones engaging in censorship, local newspaper editors also refused to print stories about the dangers of a Liberty Loan parade that Krusen refused to cancel. The parade went ahead and accelerated an outbreak that ultimately killed 12,000 Philadelphians. (Barry, 2016)

It’s not surprising that public officials today would choose censorship as a policy during a pandemic. Barry recounts his experience attending a pandemic “war game” in 2017. As a historian that had written a New York Times best-selling book, *The Great Influenza: The Epic Story of the Greatest Plague in Histor\*\*y*, Barry gave a speech to the participants about America’s experience with pandemic censorship in 1918 and why health officials should favor being honest and forthright. Barry was able to observe the exercise and was “stunned” by what the officials chose to do with the information:

>Next, the people running the game revealed the day’s challenge to the participants: A severe pandemic influenza virus was spreading around the world. It had not officially reached California, but a suspected case—the severity of the symptoms made it seem so—had just surfaced in Los Angeles. The news media had learned of it and were demanding a press conference.  
>  
>The participant with the first move was a top-ranking public health official. What did he do? He declined to hold a press conference, and instead just released a statement: *More tests are required. The patient might not have pandemic influenza. There is no reason for concern.*  
>  
>I was stunned. This official had not actually told a lie, but he had deliberately minimized the danger; whether or not this particular patient had the disease, a pandemic was coming. (Barry, 2017)

Ominously, even when warned about the danger that censorship poses to public health, officials chose to censor their public messaging. Even in an imagined exercise scenario where the costs of doing the right thing are abstract and relatively easy decisions to make, public officials chose to censor. What hope can we have of public officials doing the right thing and committing to frank, honest communication in the face of a real pandemic, when the stakes are much higher than an imaginary exercise?

The decision to censor is exactly what happened during the coronavirus pandemic in the United States, over 100 years after 1918. Zhong writes that “American governments, at both the federal and local levels, often replicated the initial actions taken by municipal and provincial officials in Wuhan and Hubei to deny, minimize and cover up the crisis.” (2021) This had the exact effect that Barry warned of in his article for *Smithsonian* three years earlier. Zhong notes that censorship did not improve America’s covid-19 response, and that good decisions were often made only after the truth was publicly known:

>Policy choices should have been clear after the health risks associated with the pandemic were known, yet an ignorance or evasion of them has persisted through the pandemic’s peak in the United States. Yet when witnesses to the horrors of COVID-19 and shoddy management of the pandemic are allowed to speak for themselves, it often spurs a more democratized and humane policy. (2021)

Facebook began censoring coronavirus related posts very early in the pandemic. Only a week after the lockdown in Wuhan began, Facebook announced that they were going to begin targeting coronavirus information for censorship. On January 31st of 2020, Reuters reported that Facebook would “remove content about the virus ‘with false claims or conspiracy theories that have been flagged by leading global health organizations and local health authorities,’ saying such content would violate its ban on misinformation leading to ‘physical harm.’ “(Paul, 2020) Eventually, other tech companies would join Facebook, issuing a joint statement about their resolve to fight fraud and misinformation and their commitment to “elevating authoritative content” on their platforms. (Niemiec, 2020)

That “authoritative content” was often wrong. Amazingly, the World Health Organization considered the idea that Covid-19 was airborne to be misinformation in February. 17 days after the lockdown began in Wuhan, on February 9, 2020 WHO Director of Global Infectious Hazard Preparedness, Sylvie Briand explained the airborne virus “myth” to *UN News*, the official news service of the United Nations :

>“People had suddenly the impression that the virus was in the air and…there is this cloud of virus” that can cause infection, she said. “This is not the situation. Currently the virus is transmitted through droplets and you need a close contact to be infected (2020)

We now know that Covid-19 is airborne, of course, and this has significant implications for public health recommendations, including the necessity of mask wearing whenever indoors, regardless of social distancing. (Greenhalgh et al, 2021)

There is perhaps no better example of a trusted public health official during the early days of the pandemic than Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Writing for *The New Yorker,* Michael Specter states that “Americans have come to rely on Fauci's authoritative presence” and even compares his authoritative stature to Walter Cronkite’s: “Perhaps not since the Vietnam era, when Walter Cronkite, the avuncular anchor of the ‘CBS Evening News,’ was routinely described as the most trusted man in America, has the country depended so completely on one person”. (2020) Yet Dr. Fauci, the nation’s expert on infectious disease, was telling Americans not to wear masks in public as late as 45 days after the lockdown in Wuhan made it clear how serious the new disease was. In a March 8, 2020 interview with CBS 60 Minutes (2020), Fauci said

>Now, when you see people and look at the films in China, South Korea or whatever everybody is wearing a mask. Right now in the United States, people should not be walking around with masks. There’s no reason to be walking around with a mask. When you’re in the middle of an outbreak, wearing a mask might make people ‘feel a little better’ and it might even block a droplet but it’s not providing the perfect protection the people think that it is. And often, there are unintended consequences. People keep fiddling with the mask and they keep touching their face. (2020, 0:20)

It is hard to believe now that Covid being airborne was considered misinformation by the World Health Organization, and that the National Institute of Health’s top expert on infectious disease was emphatically telling Americans that masks don’t work in March of 2020, 3 months into the Covid-19 pandemic. These were the very authorities that social media companies were citing to identify what was and what was not misinformation. One cannot help but wonder today how the outcome of the pandemic might have been different if people in the United States were warned that the virus was likely already spreading in their communities, that it was airborne, and that they should wear masks in public. Instead, public health authorities in the U.S. were saying that everything was under control, echoing the failures of 1918.

Dr. Fauci’s early public statements regarding coronavirus are eerily reminiscent of the pandemic “war-game” John Barry witnessed in 2017. Answering a reporter’s question on February 15, 2020 about whether or not Americans should be wearing masks, Dr. Fauci told *My News 13* “Oh absolutely not… There’s no reason for anyone right now in The United States, with regard to coronavirus, to wear a mask. We have fifteen cases that have been identified, isolated and their contacts have been traced.” (2020) This could have been Philadelphia health director Wilmer Krusen in 1918 speaking about influenza, telling the public that there is no reason to worry, that everything is under control.

However, it is clear today that Dr. Fauci had every reason to believe that everything was not under control, and that community spread almost certainly already under way in the United States. By this point, the novel coronavirus’ contagiousness was on full, public display in a Japanese harbor. Aboard the Princess Diamond cruise ship, only 10 people had tested positive just ten days earlier but by Valentine’s Day, over 200 people had been infected despite quarantine procedures – and asymptomatic spread was practically a certainty. (Nakazawa et al, 2020) Positive tests were popping up all over the world while thousands of international flights carried millions of people back and forth.

The official WHO situation report for that day included 139 more deaths in Hubei province alone, bringing the total death toll in Hubei to 1,596 deaths. The WHO’s Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Situation Report –26 includes a chart showing that the number of international cases per day outside of China had steadily risen from under 15 new cases per day in late January to over 60 cases per day in 8 different countries. Nearly all the cases for the past few days had been due to international travel, and it was clear from the chart that the trend was steeply linear if not exponential. (2020)

Yet the same report that indicated an enormous outbreak of most lethal disease in the last 100 years had sparked a rapidly increasing trend in international cases outside of China, this same report was officially advising international travelers not to worry: “WHO does not recommend any specific health measures for travellers. In case of symptoms suggestive of respiratory illness either during or after travel, travellers are encouraged to seek medical attention and share their travel history with their healthcare provider.” (2020)

Whether or not public officials like Dr. Fauci or the World Health Organization were intentionally downplaying the disturbing signals of a lethal pandemic in its early stages a la the pandemic war-game in 2017, their public health advice was wrong. Fauci’s answer to a reporter’s question on February 15, 2020 about avoiding large crowds was a nervous denial that there was any risk:

>Well yeah you, but actually depends on what you mean, if you’re talking about coronavirus (Fauci starts fidgeting in his chair as he says this and stutters) it – it is not circulating in this country, so there’s no issue with regard to crowds (Fauci’s eyes dart to the side as he says “crowds”) but! we are still in the middle of a flu season…  ( *MyNews13,* 0:37)

Facebook even went to the length of banning advertisements for face masks. (Leathern, 2020) The fact that public officials are often wrong anyway is one reason that many believe social media companies should not have the power to censor speech. They are not good at differentiating good, useful information from harmful information:

>Vera Eidelman, a staff attorney for the ACLU Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project, holds that "Facebook has shown us that it does a bad job of moderating 'hateful' or 'offensive' posts, even when its intentions are good. Facebook will do no better at serving as the arbiter of truth versus misinformation, and we should remain wary of its power to deprioritize certain posts or to moderate content in other ways that fall short of censorship." (Etzioni, 2019)

Throughout the pandemic, social media companies have erred on the side of over-censoring covid-related information. YouTube was still censoring videos in September of 2020, taking down a video of Florida governor Rick DeSantis discussing the pandemic with three credentialed physicians and scientists, including Stanford’s Dr. Jay Battachary and Harvard biostatistician Martin Kulldorff. The Wall Street Journal writes that “YouTube’s Orwellian standard for medical misinformation is information that contradicts ‘authorities.’ “(2021) YouTube cited as a reason for the censorship that the panelists in the video indicated that children didn’t need to wear masks – but that happens to also be the position of the World Health Organization. (2021) So what experts are YouTube using, anyway? It is not clear, and that is a problem. According to Zhong et al, “These companies need to be more transparent about their censorship mechanisms and subject their actual policies and procedures to scrutiny and public debate.” (2021)

Social media companies are not very good at managing censorship. They tend to heavily favor outright deletion as a form of moderation to avoid fines and negative publicity, deleting millions of posts a year. Most of these deletions are a response to users flagging the posts, not monitoring by the social media company itself. This makes the censorship system vulnerable to organized efforts to disrupt a story by repeatedly flagging it. (Citron, 2018) China, in fact, employs tens of thousands of censors monitoring social media posts, who could easily flag a post into oblivion. (King et al, 2014

Social Media is clumsy about deletions because they face an enormous volume of information to manage. Facebook removes an average of 10 million posts per day, mostly spam. (Stjernfelt & Lauritzen, 2020) Facebook blocked thousands of coronavirus posts indiscriminately in early March of 2020, even posts from public health authorities and experts – seemingly all posts containing the word “coronavirus.” This began happening the day after Facebook issued a joint statement with Google, Twitter, Microsoft, LinkedIn and Reddit that they were going to increase their efforts to fight misinformation. Facebook later would claim the deletions were due to a software glitch. (Koestier, 2020)

People today depend on social media. According to Jackson, social media has transformed how society operates, including the institutions of communication, government, and business. (2014) Around two thirds of Americans get their news from social media today. (Etzioni, 2019) This is part of the world that early proponents of the internet envisioned. Morozov writes in *The Net Delusion: The Dark Side of Internet Freedom* that the early days of the internet were typified by a kind of optimistic naiveté about the possibilities of a world networked together, a vision championed by what he calls “cyber-utopians.” He postulates that the generation of cyber-utopians has by now subsided and a type of overconfident, faux realism has taken its place, in the form of what Morozov calls “internet centrism.” Internet centrism, according to Morozov is as much of a failure as cyber-utopianism:

>\[Internet Centrists’\] realistic convictions, however, rarely make up for their flawed methodology, which prioritizes the tool over the environment, and, as such, is deaf to the social, cultural, and political subtleties and indeterminacies. Internet-centrism is a highly disorienting drug; it ignores context and entraps policymakers into believing that they have a useful and powerful ally on their side. Pushed to its extreme, it leads to hubris, arrogance, and a false sense of confidence, all bolstered by the dangerous illusion of having established effective command of the Internet. All too often, its practitioners fashion themselves as possessing full mastery of their favorite tool, treating it as a stable and finalized technology, oblivious to the numerous forces that are constantly reshaping the Internet - not all of them for the better. Treating the Internet as a constant, they fail to see their own responsibility in preserving its freedom and reining in the ever-powerful intermediaries, companies like Google and Facebook. (2012, p. xvi)

This describes well what happened during the early days of the Covid pandemic in 2020, when world leaders decided to combat coronavirus misinformation by utilizing censorship on social media – very naturally deciding to “fix the problem” by thinking of social media as a tool under their command – not a tool of information sharing, as a cyber-utopian might imagine – but as a tool for censorship, very much like the cynical “Internet Centrist” described by Morozov.

There were plenty who wished to use the internet for censorship. Governments have cracked down on journalists to control coronavirus pandemic information. The International Press Institute counted at least 544 press freedom violations as of January 2021. There are at least 19 countries that passed “fake news” laws in response to the pandemic, to grant them greater authority to control Covid related information, and many journalists suffered retaliation for their reporting. (Griffen, 2021) Both Chinese and American officials have an interest in keeping a tight control on pandemic related information: “Many political failures are woven into the story of COVID-19. Yet to admit and directly address these failures would compel those responsible – whether they be Chinese provincial government officials or American mayors and governors – to relinquish power.” (Zhong, 2021)

Censorship on social media is a particular problem for society for three reasons, according to Jackson. First: people often have no other way of communicating. By the ability to censor individuals, social media risks completely rendering a particular story invisible. Dr. Li Wenliang, for example, naturally turned to social media to warn China about the new disease – and consequently, it became an effective target for censorship. Second, because of the nature of networks and how they feature multiple connections to individuals, social media is very efficient at disrupting a story by focusing on a few individuals or groups, or “nodes” of a social network. Being completely in control of this network, social media companies are thus uniquely capable of disrupting information sharing. Anyone sharing Dr. Li’s posts could effectively be censored as well, virtually eliminating the story from the public’s view. Third, the public aspect of social media means that it is easy to monitor which individuals share and support politically contentious content, and this lack of anonymity makes it more likely that individuals using social media will self-censor out of fears of being identified and harassed. Very few Chinese citizens would dare to publicly post about topics once they know it is official policy not to do so. (Jackson, 2014)

It’s difficult to tell misinformation from valid information and blocking information too broadly can have negative consequences. Larson writes that “Some emerging, albeit unverified, information might be valuable, and deleting it would cause harm.” (2020) Dr. Li’s post about human-to-human transmission of the new SARS-like respiratory disease in December of 2019 is exactly the kind of “emerging, albeit unverified” information “that might be valuable.” The deletion of Dr. Li’s posts is a painful but clear example of the how social media companies have an enormous power today, as Stjernfelt & Lauritzen write:

>given the fact that the giants have almost reached monopoly power over user information flow, they have in their hands a very powerful tool to control and take advantage of precisely what becomes shared knowledge and what does not. It is a power that should be used with great care. The one who controls public space and the information in it can do good but also cause major harm. (2021)

It is probable that all these censorship attempts did not help create a more informed public anyway. Even though a majority of people get their news online, one study found that those who used Facebook for any news at all were less likely to answer Covid-19 questions correctly than those that used other sources. (Sakya et al, 2021) This study has disturbing implications considering that most Americans do get some news from social media. The censorship, at the very least, did not make them more informed as a result, and may have actually made its users less informed.

What could be done about social media censorship? Niemiec challenges the question first, here responding to the “infodemic” talking point popular with the World Health Organization in February.

>If censorship of scientific information does not seem to be an adequate solution to the problem of false medical news on social media, what then is a fitting remedy to the “infodemic”? In order to adequately address this question, it seems that a few related and more fundamental issues should be addressed. What exactly is the COVID‐19 infodemic? Based on what criteria is it declared and what are the implications of such a declaration? How do the different actors define “misinformation”? What are the actual and potential harms of the spread of false medical information? These questions should be answered in order to determine what exactly the problem is that we are trying to solve. (2020)

Before we even consider whether to censor coronavirus misinformation, we need to have a clear understanding of who has the authority to determine what is misinformation. There are clearly problems with leaving it to public heath authorities alone.

Jackson, writing for *New Mexico Law Review* goes so far as to say that “federal courts can and should extend First Amendment protections to communications on social network websites due to the importance these websites have assumed as forums for speech and public discourse.” (2014) Velasquez et al write that “Maintaining a common good often requires that particular individuals or particular groups bear costs that are much greater than those borne by others.” Some, perhaps, will suffer because of misinformation on social media. A common example of misinformation were stories about posts advising people to drink bleach as a coronavirus cure and as a basic covid prophylactic. (Larson, 2020) While we may intend to protect the would-be bleach drinkers via social media censorship, the censorship might do more harm than good. “Although the censorship on social media may seem an efficient and immediate solution to the problem of medical and scientific misinformation, it paradoxically introduces a risk of propagation of errors and manipulation.” (Niemiec, 2022)

Censorship is a powerful and dangerous weapon that has never proven useful during a pandemic. Social media gives governments and institutions more power to censor than ever before. Our experience with clumsy and misguided censorship during the Covid-19 shows that erring on the side of free speech rather than censorship has benefits that outweigh the costs. History tells us, however, that though measures such as constitutionally protected free speech on social media could be beneficial during a public health crisis, public authorities will probably always react to pandemics with censorship via whatever tools they have available - and that this censorship will always result in harm.

Works Cited

60 Minutes. (2020, March 8). *March 2020: Dr. Anthony Fauci talks with Dr Jon LaPook about Covid-19* \[Video\]. YouTube. [https://youtu.be/PRa6t\_e7dgI](https://youtu.be/PRa6t_e7dgI)

Barry, J. M. (2017, November). *How the Horrific 1918 Flu Spread Across America*. Smithsonian Magazine. [https://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/journal-plague-year-180965222/](https://www.smithsonianmag.com/history/journal-plague-year-180965222/)

Benjamin F. Jackson. (2014). Censorship and Freedom of Expression in the Age of Facebook. *New Mexico Law Review.*, *44*, 121–167.

Bollyky, T. J., & Nuzzo, J. B. (2020, October 1). *Trump’s ‘early’ travel ‘bans’ weren’t early, weren’t bans and didn’t work*. Washington Post. [https://www.washingtonpost.com/outlook/2020/10/01/debate-early-travel-bans-china/](https://www.washingtonpost.com/outlook/2020/10/01/debate-early-travel-bans-china/)

Chen, Yuyu, & Yang, David Y. (2019). The Impact of Media Censorship: 1984 or Brave New World? The American Economic Review, 109(6), 2294–2332. [https://doi.org/10.1257/aer.20171765](https://doi.org/10.1257/aer.20171765)

Citron, Danielle Keats. (2018). EXTREMIST SPEECH, COMPELLED CONFORMITY, AND CENSORSHIP CREEP. The Notre Dame Law Review, 93(3), 1035.

*Coronavirus: UN health agency moves fast to tackle ‘infodemic’;* (2020, February 9). UN News. [https://news.un.org/en/story/2020/02/1056672](https://news.un.org/en/story/2020/02/1056672)

Etzioni, A. (2019). Should we privatize censorship? *Issues in Science and Technology, 36*(1), 19-22.

Greenhalgh, Trisha, Jimenez, Jose L, Prather, Kimberly A, Tufekci, Zeynep, Fisman, David, & Schooley, Robert. (2021). Ten scientific reasons in support of airborne transmission of SARS-CoV-2. The Lancet (British Edition), 397(10285), 1603.

Griffen, Scott. (2021). Covid reports cause trouble. British Journalism Review, 32(1), 61–65.

King, G, Pan, J, & Roberts, M. E. (2014). Reverse-engineering censorship in China: Randomized experimentation and participant observation. Science (American Association for the Advancement of Science), 345(6199), 1251722–1251722.

Koetsier, J. (2020, March 18). *Facebook Deleting Coronavirus Posts, Leading To Charges Of Censorship*. Forbes. [https://www.forbes.com/sites/johnkoetsier/2020/03/17/facebook-deleting-coronavirus-posts-leading-to-charges-of-censorship/?sh=1890e025962b](https://www.facebook.com/business/news/allowing-the-promotion-of-non-medical-masks-on-facebook)

Larson, Heidi J. (2020). Blocking information on COVID-19 can fuel the spread of misinformation. *Nature (London)*, *580*(7803), 306–306.

Leathern, R. (2020, August). *Allowing the Promotion of Non-Medical Masks on Facebook*. Facebook. [https://www.facebook.com/business/news/allowing-the-promotion-of-non-medical-masks-on-facebook](https://www.facebook.com/business/news/allowing-the-promotion-of-non-medical-masks-on-facebook)

Morozov, E. (2012). *The Net Delusion : The Dark Side of Internet Freedom.*

Nakazawa, Eisuke, Ino, Hiroyasu, & Akabayashi, Akira. (2020). Chronology of COVID-19 Cases on the Diamond Princess Cruise Ship and Ethical Considerations: A Report From Japan. Disaster Medicine and Public Health Preparedness, 14(4), 506–513. [https://doi.org/10.1017/dmp.2020.50](https://doi.org/10.1017/dmp.2020.50)

Niemiec, Emilia. (2020). COVID-19 and misinformation: Is censorship of social media a remedy to the spread of medical misinformation? *EMBO Reports*, *21*(11), e51420–e51420.

Paul, K. (2020, February 1). *As coronavirus misinformation spreads on social media, Facebook removes posts*. U.S.[https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-health-facebook-idUKKBN1ZV388](https://www.mynews13.com/fl/orlando/news/2020/02/15/disease-expert--flu-a-bigger-risk-in-the-us-than-coronavirus#)

Sakya, Surav Man, Scoy, Lauren Jodi Van, Garman, John C, Miller, Erin L, Snyder, Bethany, Wasserman, Emily, Chinchilli, Vernon M, & Lennon, Robert P. (n.d.). The impact of COVID-19-related changes in media consumption on public knowledge: results of a cross-sectional survey of Pennsylvania adults. *Current Medical Research and Opinion*, *ahead-of-print*(ahead-of-print), 1–5. [https://doi.org/10.1080/03007995.2021.1901679](https://doi.org/10.1080/03007995.2021.1901679)

Spectrum News. (2020, February 15). *Disease Expert: Flu a Bigger Risk in the US Than Coronavirus* \[Video\]. My News 13.[https://www.mynews13.com/fl/orlando/news/2020/02/15/disease-expert--flu-a-bigger-risk-in-the-us-than-coronavirus#](https://www.mynews13.com/fl/orlando/news/2020/02/15/disease-expert--flu-a-bigger-risk-in-the-us-than-coronavirus#)

*Timeline: China’s COVID-19 outbreak and lockdown of Wuhan*. (2021, January 22). AP NEWS. [https://apnews.com/article/pandemics-wuhan-china-coronavirus-pandemic-e6147ec0ff88affb99c811149424239d](https://apnews.com/article/pandemics-wuhan-china-coronavirus-pandemic-e6147ec0ff88affb99c811149424239d)

YouTube's Assault on Covid Accountability. (2021). The Wall Street Journal. Eastern Edition.

Velasquez, M., Andre, C., Shanks, T., S.J., & Meyer, M. (2014). *Thinking Ethically*. Markkula Center for Applied Ethics. [https://www.scu.edu/ethics/ethics-resources/ethical-decision-making/thinking-ethically/](https://www.scu.edu/ethics/ethics-resources/ethical-decision-making/thinking-ethically/)

World Health Organization. (2020, February 15). *Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19 )Situation Report –26*. The World Health Organization. [https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200215-sitrep-26-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=a4cc6787\_2](https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200215-sitrep-26-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=a4cc6787_2)

Zhong, Hanfeng, & Watters, Paul A. (2020). The Ethics of Corporate Censorship of Information-Sharing Behavior: A Nonconsequentialist Perspective. *Library Trends*, *68*(4), 697–711.

Zhong, Rui. (2021). Parallel Narratives: Political amnesia in China and the U.S. endangers communities--and damages public health responses. The Wilson Quarterly (Washington), 45(2).

Top Comments:
This is full retard stuff.

My favorite part is the delusion that if Covid is airborne it means masks work.

In fact, it's the opposite.

Now that we know Covid is carried in aerosol form, we know (as we knew right up until the media and politicians decided otherwise, to be fair, the science never changed on this - just the belief of retards) it is impossible for a mask to be worth a fucking damn.

Aerosols pass straight through masks as though they weren't there. That's because the particles are so small they sail through the gaps in the material. It's like using a football net to stop mosquitoes, absolutely fucking pointless.

Also, because aerosols are smaller than smoke particles all those videos of people blowing smoke through masks? They're a visual representation of why they are fucking worthless.

And yes, though it took until the last couple of weeks, both CDC and the WHO have conceded that aerosol transmission is real. Again something that any sane scientist could have told you on day one.

The idea that this was carried on surfaces or by being coughed/sneezed on was always fucking hilarious except to morons. Morons thought it was real. The same morons couldn't tell you the last time a stranger sneezed or coughed in their face but they were still positive it was happening somewhere. That's why they put masks on - to stop droplets not aerosols even though that it was retard reasoning through and through.
Thank you for your post to /r/FreeSpeech! As a reminder, this subreddit is for discussion and news about freedom of speech issues around the world, not a general opinion about any topic. Please make sure your post follows [the rules](/r/FreeSpeech/about/rules).

If you have an unpopular opinion that you would like to share, try a subreddit such as /r/unpopularopinion or /r/doesanybodyelse. Make sure you read and follow the rules of external subreddits.

Your post has **not** been actioned on in any way.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/FreeSpeech) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I’ve only been blocked and deleted from one sub here. 

r/conservative 


There’s no need to block or delete posts when there properly exposed as misinformation or fact checked so even the dumbest person knows the truth. 

Take for instance -there was no election fraud and Biden is the legal and legitimate President. 

This shouldn’t be an issue if people would post facts.. 

They should flag all the lies as false so there’s no question when losers claim something without verifiable facts. 

Like election fraud…