Title: We need to have a little talk with the libertarian purist about social media/big tech banning and censoring content.

Post:
Months ago I made a post that went something like this: Big government is funding and subsidizing big tech IE social media companies. Billions of tax money is used to support these big companies with their infrastructure and what not. Doesnt this mean that big/tech and social media shouldnt have a right to take sides and censor rightwing content? The libertarian purist responded with: "Well they are a private company and just because they get free money from the government doesn't mean they lose their right to ban and censor whoever they want!"

The "leftwinger libertarians" of course agree with this censorship, not out of principle but mainly because its mostly rightwing content that is getting banned. But you know they would be screaming about censorship if it was their content that was getting banned. Such is the hypocrisy of the left and double standards of the left. 

The problem is that the whitehouse is communicating with face book and big tech about writing up a naughty list and suggesting who gets banned and who gets censor. We knew this was happening before but now its becoming more obvious(link of video below). Does the libertarian purist agree with this? Should big tech be allowed to talk to the whitehouse democrats and decide who gets banned and censored? Should big tech be allowed to black list certain users? Be allowed to give away our private information to the government? What about big banks? Should big banks be allowed to deny service to certain users too? We know companies like paypal and gofundme are becoming picky on who they support. IE they dont support rightwingers when they get into legal trouble. 

Should businesses be allowed to deny service with unvaccinated people if the government suggested it? After all they are a private business.

Even now youtube is disabling the "dislikes counter" because Biden and the liberal media are so unpopular. They want to hide just how unpopular they are. Which is a form of election influence. It always has been. But the hypocritical left is allowed to do any of this.   

There is a culture war going on. And the leftwing establishment love to play dirty along with their double standards. The libertarian purist might think about taking a side. Because at the end of the day a lot of these marxist do believe in having a bloody revolution. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CLLcaT4splQ

Top Comments:
1. The government shouldn't be giving money to these corporations period.
2. Your claim about left libertarians being okay with private entities banning content only out of hatred towards that content is your own biased interpretation. You don't even consider the possibility that it's out of principle. Have you ever even asked a left libertarian what they thought?
3. I don't know if "Marxists" are thinking about a bloody revolution. What everyone does know is that the right-wing already tried it, and to me that counts a lot more than thoughtcrime.

Edit: I hate mobile...

Edit edit: 4. Left wing content is banned frequently, too. It's just not talked about by the left very much and isn't sensationalized.
So basically you like capitalism until a business get too big that you can't control them and want the government to force them to allow things that will cost them revenue? What harm do they cause that can not be fixed by using another business? You're basically asking for businesses to be forced to serve you.
They don't ban right wing stuff. They ban tinfoil hat stuff that just so happens to mostly come from right wingers.
I think the answer is you need a degree of separation between state and business. Similar to how we try to separate church and state. I don’t know to what degree. Certainly their aught to be something regarding labor laws and preventing exploitation and slavery. 

However, there definitely needs to be an end to corporate socialism. A business should succeed or fail on its own. The government shouldn’t be throwing money to bail out corporations like they did for GM. Especially if they do no manufacturing in America. Businesses that let China or Pakistan do are their manufacturing, are not American. 

The government shouldn’t be influencing how are private entity works. Precisely because Americans are split up into factions, and partisan influence over businesses isn’t good. 


Businesses on the other hand shouldn’t influence government. Their should be no legislation favoring larger businesses over smaller businesses.  The government shouldn’t be making laws that influence businesses to outsource.  Like serious. China isn’t our ally. If trade breaks down we sold out our manufacturing independence, and this country will be fucked.  We need products to be made here. Especially essentials.


Ideally the market and especially the internet needs to be decentralized. A business like a person has freedom of association. If Facebook wanted to ban all conservatives. If Reddit took down this subreddit. They should be allowed to. However, there should be nothing stopping you from building your own websites and starting your own businesses. If one business doesn’t want to do business with certain people you can. Conservatives are half the population that’s been quite a bit of money. Plus you have independents and regular people who don’t care. 

For the most part the government should keep its hands out of the private sector and the private sector should keep its hands out of the government.  Business + government acting in unison or following the same ideology leads to fascism. 

A freer market is the key to dealing with big tech censorship.  

Conservatives and even libertarians. Shouldn’t use face book or etc. if they don’t want you leave. Hell libertarians should be owning and running their own websites. It’s not libertarian to be under another person’s thumb.  If conservatives just switch over to gab. Minds . Or parlor which has come back. That’s a big chunk of people. Better yet. Again build your own damn sites. Own your own businesses. Create your own culture. If liberals and leftist want a conservative free economy or culture  let them have it and just build a parallel economy, and culture. Make conservative sodas. Or libertarian clothing.  Or centrist art. Whatever.  If one side doesn’t want to coexist with the other. They shouldn’t have to.  You can have right businesses snd left businesses.  And have nothing to do with each other.
I hardly every see any democrat or any liberal or any leftwinger protest social media censorship.

In other words 99% of all protest for big tech censorship comes from the right. The only time the left complained about censorship was when they also banned r/chapotraphouse on reddit. 

Can you find me one democrat who was against Trump getting censored by big tech?