Title: Reddit is censor happy and bears responsibility for pushing some Americans further right

Post:
I have had many reddit accounts banned, all for ridiculous reasons. I have been banned for telling obvious jokes. I've been banned for saying "if someone bit me, I would slap them" (this is not an encouragement of glorification if violence, it's me stating what I would do in that situation) and many other ridiculous reasons. Is this want we want a digital parent? I remember when this app was a libertarian dream, now you have to watch everything you say for fear of upsetting someone. I am a leftist myself but I can see why all this censorship would cause someone to think the left doesn't care about free speech and send them running to the he right. Do better Reddit you made people like Elon musk more powerful by pushing people to his side before the election. Reddit claims to be a center for discussion and debate but it has become a place for like minded thinking.

Top Comments:
Things I’ve gotten banned for saying on Reddit:

1. That gender identity is a construct, but biological sex is real. I was banned, from a science sub, for promoting hate.

2. That it’s understandable for people to be upset when terrorists drive vehicles into crowds. I was banned, from a news sub, for promoting hate.

3. That it was wrong for the UK government and police to cover up twenty years of violent gang r*pe against children because of the ethnicity of the perpetrators. I was instantly banned, from a women’s right sub, without a reason given.
I've been playing RDR2 recently and it reminded me of the 1800's Temperance movements. You know, those puritanical holier-than-thou types that like to tell everybody else how to live "moral" lives. Back in the 70's and 80's a fruitcake like that would have been viewed with utter ridiculing. Now that class of person, that arrogant self-important weasel has taken over. All power corrupts, but now we live in an era where you get a pat on the back for being a boorish pretentious cunt.
I feel that they’re also pushing people to the left too, and not in a good way. 

Everyone on reddit has Nazi’s living in their head rent free, and it just so happens that anyone remotely right wing is no different than hitler to them. 
I got banned from Insane Parents by saying “wow the media has both sides going wild”

On a political post.

I’m neither right nor left.

I was told by a mod that “I was part of a MAGA Mob trying to brigade the post”
Yup.

In order to please advertisers, social media (including Reddit) decided they couldn't allow anything but far-left speech. Any moderate speech gets you banned or ostracized.

This resulted in moderate individuals seeking refugee among the right.
I haven't been pushed right. I believe in freedom of speech, assembly, and association. I think all people are equal under the law and the claims of racism, sexism, transphobia, and Islamophobia are greatly exaggerated. There are also genuine problems with these movements and the mass immigration to Western Countries. 

I do not want the U.S. to go the way of Canada, Europe, and Australia.

Woke left folks are not liberals at all, but illiberal cyborgs bleating the same accusatory messages. Anyone believing they (or some other group) are under existential threat 24/7 is mentally ill.  
With all the idiots making death threats on this website, something is going to happen soon if they don't knock it off.
What do Elon Musk, Trump, RFK and Tulsi Gabbard all have in common?

They were lifelong democrats before the democrats became crazy echo chamber consuming nutjobs and left them.
I agree it pushed me more to the right as I witnessed all the hate speech from the left and banning or removing of content that the left doesn't like.
i fucking miss reveddit and unddit for this exact reason - I SOOO wish we could use that shit again. I would ALWAYS go straight to read the deleted comments. I can recall being MORE pissed that an offensive post was deleted than i was even concerned with being offended by it lol (some like demisexual-phobic textwall that prob would have made me cry lol) I literally like HATED the fact that the bullshit was deleted MORE than I gave a shit about the post being hurtful. 

  
Also I can't stand that we can't see half of the fucking conversation because comments just get deleted and we wind up with like an even worse echochamber. 

ALSO \~! THE FACT THAT PORN CAN EXIST HERE BUT NOT WRITTEN WORDS???? Make it make sense