Title: Lawsuit filed against top Biden officials for colluding with Big Tech to censor users

Post:
[Lawsuit filed against Biden, top officials for 'colluding' with Big Tech to censor speech on Hunter, COVID (yahoo.com)](https://news.yahoo.com/lawsuit-filed-against-biden-top-191738195.html)

"Two GOP-led states filed a lawsuit against President Biden, White House press secretary Jen Psaki, Dr. Anthony Fauci and other top administration officials alleging that they "pressured and colluded" with Big Tech social media companies to censor and suppress information on the Hunter Biden laptop story, COVID-19 origins and security of voting by mail during the pandemic.

[Missouri](https://www.foxnews.com/category/us/us-regions/midwest/missouri) Attorney General Eric Schmitt and Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry filed the lawsuit Thursday in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Louisiana. The suit accuses top ranking government officials of working with the giant social media companies Meta, Twitter and YouTube "under the guise of combating misinformation" in order to achieve greater censorship.

The lawsuit names Nina Jankowicz, the head of the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) new "Disinformation Governance Board," which has received severe backlash from both Democratic and Republican lawmakers for limiting free speech. Lawmakers have expressed concern specifically with the appointment of Jankowicz, who promoted the widely-discredited Christopher Steele dossier and repeated the narrative that Hunter Biden's laptop was a product of a Russian disinformation campaign."

The collusion of state and corporate power to censor speech with the intent of influencing elections is literally fascist IMHO.

 "The lawsuit alleges that the federal government violated constitutional rights to suppress free speech in "one of its greatest assaults by federal government officials in the Nation’s history."

The defendants allegedly "coerced, threatened, and pressured social media platforms to censor disfavored speakers and viewpoints by using threats of adverse government action," according to the filing."

Justice is coming,

Top Comments:
It's already well established SCOTUS precedent that a government official getting a private party to suppress a third parties speech writes is against the first amendment.
It's funny how when a lawsuit like this is filed against Biden or Clinton, and the prosecutors WIN, you don't hear anything about it and nothing happens...

But a feckless accusation is made towards someone like... Elon Musk, or Trump, and that's all you hear about for literal years.
Wow the GOP are desperate.

Why don't they try coming up with some policies rather than these pointless attempts at point scoring.
For 80 quintillionth time, who cares about the president's crack or smack addicted son OR his goddamn laptop?

The thing about news?  It has the word "NEW" in it.  🙄
Let's see if they can at least allege sufficient facts to get past a rule 12(b)(6) dismissal.

&#x200B;

Not that I think they will win.
Of course they have been colluding. If people don't know this they haven't been paying attention or they think it's great because it helps their team. Tech CEOs have met at the White House multiple times. I just don't know if this is "illegal".  It should be given the influence tech companies have.  Now if this was Putin not Biden the DNC and big media would be all over this.
Right, exactly. So if collusion is proven in this case, then we have a clear 1a violation in the status quo. Thats why this is such an important case.