Title: I hate how “most relevant is selected” is the default setting for Facebook comments, I literally have to deselect it every time. This is just another example of passive censorship by big tech.

Post:
I seriously hope Musk takes on the Zuck and Reddit next, they are by far the worst offenders and out of control.

Top Comments:
you mean you have to CLICK A BUTTON TO READ A COMMENT?!?!!?! the horror. poor widdle redditor. never clicked a button before in your life i bet
Why does that amaze you?? It’s a fucking monopoly on public discourse, that’s the whole problem.  10-20 years ago there were thousands of message boards and alternative forums, now it’s Facebook and Reddit if you want to engage and they are heavily left leaning.
I mean, I specifically said I already do this EVERY damn time I enter a comments section. I mean, that’s completely beside the point and an extremely irritating nuisance.  I mean, stop saying “I mean” before every fucking statement!!! I hate the hive mind vocabulary of the internet.
I always like the people who know everything think everyone knows and does the same things.  The average person probably doesn't know about this or does it.  I am not scared about the people who are able to see through the censorship. I am worried about the people who don't and get subliminally manipulated by big tech.  

Do you "like" things you don't like to throw off the algorithm?

Do you follow things you don't like to throw off the algorithm?

Do you do other things to ensure you're not being manipulated?
Facebook came about well before smartphones existed even in their basic forms.   2004.

Now, its completely superfluous.

Nowadays, you can do everything on a group text or file share from the basic message or imessage app, even doing video calls, all built into the phone by default apps.  All you need is your friends and family contacts.

And you dont get ads either.
Heavily left leaning? LOL

Go try to say ANYTHING that might challenge the world view of conservatives on Reddit and see how quick you get banned.

Even asking them to treat their own candidates like they do Democrats will get you banned.

ALL online conversation points are echo chambers now with or without censorship because people are drawn to that which confirms what they already believe.

The focus needs to be on education and teaching people to think both critically and rationally rather than engage in group think or just absorbed what the herd or experts think.

I'll take Covid for example. I knew we were fucked on Jan 3rd of 2022, far before anyone in my nation was talking about it. Even wrote some critters about my concern and was promptly ignored. And spent the next six months after that is awe at the shitshow response on the national, state, and local level. Meanwhile us in healthcare watched people die every day for 2 years...

I was banned from the Covid support reddit like 2 days after it was created because I DARED say the virus caused mental effects and look here, 2 years later its literally mentioned in 50% of the studies about how the effects, mental and physical, of long covid are going to be a challenge moving forward.

I'm not stupid, I'm damn well informed and very good at forecasting. But people, left and right, have this idea that if you don't have paper proving your knowledge that you have no voice and your observations don't matter. Fuck that. I know what I know whether anyone else wants to believe that or not.

There was a lot of censorship when it came to covid but I at least half understand that with the enormous amount of BULLSHIT being tossed around.

But don't think its just the right being censored, any of us who dare speak against any narrative that an echo chamber wants to believe will be targeted to be silenced as well.

There is a growing disrespect against those of us who are both independent and intelligent when we go against common belief and frankly I don't care about believe, only demonstrable FACTS. That upsets some people and I'm OK with them being upset. They need to be upset and challenged on beliefs with facts over and over until they get it.
Wtf are you talking about?? What the hell do group texts with friends and family have to do with public discussion forums?!