Title: If the government colludes with and pressures social media to ban and censor certain people and post does that still not count as anto free speech?

Post:
I know there are a lot of purist libertarians who keep on saying private social media can do whatever they want when it comes to censorship and banning anyone. Even though social media is one of the primary ways we communicate with everyone. Even though a certain leftwing political party that controls the majority of local, state and federal governments in the US work a lot of social media. 

I also want to say if you agree with letting the government police, censor and ban our speech you are definitely not a libertarian. Youre more of a Neo Liberal. 

The reason I am asking is because we know how that the Biden administration has finally admitted that they work with social media to ban and censor certain individuals. For those of us who are payign attention we already knew the democrats were already working with social media. Its just now the biden administration is admitting that they are working with social media undert the guise of censoring "misinformation". 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4JlFPMZB_jk

Top Comments:
Exactly. Social media corporations are "private organizations" in the same way political parties are. Pretending like we're all powerless to do anything about them because they don't technically call themselves government agencies is what got us in this mess to begin with.
The government can’t force social media to do anything. The fact that the government is suggesting people be banned does not somehow make them not a private company. If the government was forcing a private company to ban people, the solution would be to have them stop doing that, and not any other measure.
If the government threatens a private company to do (A thing) like censor posts. Even if the government is not directly involved in the act, because they have pressured the company they are now a state actor and it is a violation of the first amendment. But only if there is pressure applied. Otherwise it's a private company and they can tell you to suck it.
This is what has been happening all along.  It doesn’t stop people from pretending that those that are protesting it from happening are the real opponents to free speech.  Up is down, war is peace, etc…
I don’t think people are grasping the fact that big tech is working hand and hand with one of the two powerful political parties in the US and against the other. Either that or they’re all for authoritarianism when it’s “their team”. It’s scary people are ok with this.  Would people be ok with them suggesting other private businesses ban people based on political affiliation or internet activity? Grocery stores?  Pharmacies?  Bars?  Pizza joints?  Colleges?  Auto mechanics?  Email providers?