Title: What are your thoughts on the balance between free speech and the need to combat misinformation?

Post:
Is misinformation considered free speech or is there any reason to police misinformation? I'm in the camp of it's an individual's job to do their research and decide if something they read is true or if it's misinformation but wondering if anyone feels different especially with social media platforms and all of this news coming out about censorship. 

Top Comments:
The big questions when combating misinformation is who has that authority, what are the limits of that authority, what means are available to enforce that authority, and what remedies are in place when that authority is abused?

If you believe that governments should have the authority to combat misinformation, then you must be able to clearly explain how this is any different than giving a state full censorship authority.  After all, if the Ministry of Truth can determine what the lies are, then there's no stopping despotic rulers from merely silencing their critics in the name of truthiness.  There are countless examples of this in the past.  This is why having Free Speech is such a big deal, and why it's worth defending even at the risk of hearing lies or mean words.
When the 1st Amendment was conceived and written, lies, and bad information also known as misinformation existed long before it, thousands and thousands of years before it.  The 1st Amendment exists and is the fundamental basis of freedom and the 2nd Amendment is there to back that up.  There can never be a choice between free speech and no free speech (so-called combating misinformation).  OP you asking this question represents the level of manipulation that has affected the population by the government forces that are trying to infringe on everyone's 1st Amendment right.
Misinformation is just people speaking something that is wrong.  If you value free speech, misinformation MUST be allowed as part of that.  People have a right to be wrong.  It is not free speech to combat misinformation through the use of censorship.  The free speech way of combating misinformation is through speech.
there is no "need" to combat "misinformation". when did that idea start gaining ground? right around 2020, when legacy media lying and gaslighting the public was at an all time high. the sane amongst us can look back and admit it was almost entirely used as a tool to censor and bludgeon dissent - some of which was entirely factual. you might've bought into their extremely well funded campaign a little too easily. it's time to let that concept go. there are Lies, absolutely. "misinformation" is basically training the public 'don't believe your lying eyes'
Community notes is unironically the best (perhaps only) balanced take I've seen to this approach

Because notes can be wrong, then changed, but if info is banned the damage is done
Teach critical thinking. Teach scientific literacy. Also what moral absolutism means, because half the populace seem to have had amnesia about that. Teach people to stop arguing on the Internet.


Government has no place policing speech, unless it's targeted harassment against individuals or real actual credible threats.
there is no battle here


free speech means the right to be wrong. 


battling misinformation makes the state or a corporation the arbiter of truth. 


and I cannot understate how much this power has and could be abused. 


to the point the arbiter will misinform but bc they're the arbiter there's nothing you can do about it. 


bc you already gave up your speech


straight up incorrect facts leading to whatever consequence, is less dangerous than giving up our right to speech. 


I feel the same about criminal activity with guns and gun  rights. 


I feel pretty much as extreme about human privacy too.
Since I think our government doesn't have clean hands, I like erroring on the side of free speech.     

We already have laws on defamation/libel and doing things like shouting "fire" in a theater.  

We should have default presumptions.  Mine is, since the Supreme Count has said:       
>"It is the purpose of the First Amendment to preserve an uninhibited marketplace of ideas in which truth will ultimately prevail ..."                  

these censorship ideas are assumed to *prevent* the truth from prevailing.         

I heard a clip from Hillary today about how certain congressmen was parroting Russian talking points.   But, the emphasis was that the points were "Russian" and not that the points were "incorrect".  So, per Hillary, we should focus more on the messenger than the message.   

I'm into correct, and let the chips lie where they fall.