Title: Free speech discussion

Post:
Is it in line with free speech to have an individual punished and censored for telling a lie?  

I have had several individuals tell me that a lie should be removed from social media and the person punished claiming this action is still in line with free speech.

I for one believe that all speech should be allowed as long as it does not infringe on anothers rights.

Discuss

Top Comments:
Define "punished." If a social media site wants to ban people who lie, I think that's their prerogative. I don't think the state has the same set of prerogatives.
I'm with you. I don't want the shady and corrupt government telling me what's true and what's misinformation.

Curious what you would consider speech that infringes people's rights. Actions can infringe on rights but I'm not so sure about speech. Even speech that *advocates* for the infringement of rights isn't necessarily an infringement of rights in of itself.
It's important to make two distinctions:

1. Whether the lie is about a thing, like science, or about a person, and
2. Whether the government, or even social media overlords, are the entity seeking to censor/limit and/or punish a lie, or the *person who was lied about* is seeking legal redress.

If the lie is about a thing, then it can be fairly argued that censorship should not occur under almost any circumstances (exceptions being incitement to violence, for example).

If the lie is about a person, then the government, or social media, should not censor, but the person lied about should be able to seek a remedy in court if the situation meets the criteria for defamation.  In the US, in general terms, that means showing the statement was false, published (i.e. told to anyone in almost any way), and was made knowing it was false, or negligently (i.e. not knowing it was false, but in circumstances where the liar should have known it was false), and the person lied about was damaged as a result.
People are free to lie, other people are free to correct them, and everyone is responsible for not mindlessly accepting anything they see. Censoring *anyone* under the guise of 'protecting people from lies/disinformation' is still censorship, and the antithesis of free speech. Besides, where does one draw a line? Misquoting a statistic could technically be considered a lie, as it would be untrue...kind of a slippery slope when someone is out there picking and choosing.

About the only 'censorship' (if you can even call it that) I support is when it is done to remove content that is pointedly illegal and/or done with the deliberate attempt to cause physical danger/harm to people (like trying to trick someone into mixing bleach and ammonia in an enclosed space, etc.).
So there's the concept of what can be removed, and a site like X can legally remove anything it likes. Truth, lies, CP, propaganda, whatever. But this is about what should be removed.

I think its fine to remove objective lies. Elvis shot JFK. Obama is a muslim. Jews made up the holocaust. Man never went to the moon. The twin towers were demolished by the fire fighters. I'm sure people can think of many examples. I think it should be possible to say them but nobody should be required to keep them in place.

Everything else is not really a matter of lie or truth, its just perspective. What one person considers a lie, the other does not. In the free speech sense, its not acceptable to remove a 'lie'.
The person I was talking to meant punishment such as fines/jail etc.

Obviously I could not disagree more with that stance.
Good point, in the end I am very pro free speech.  I just wanted to acknowledge that there are some limits.  

In the end we need to allow the people to have free spoech without any government involvement.
So, what if removal is done by private company (say Xitter or YouTube or Netflix)? Would the requirement to never ever remove a post a video, a movie, etc, (as long as it is not label or call to violence) be equivalent to essentially forced speech? Should you have right to remove slogans put onto your property?