Title: Leftists, liberals and rightists all mean very different things when they say they support free speech.


Post:
When an anti-imperialist socialist says they support free speech, they mean they want the freedom to hold power to account, scrutinize their government’s actions, and share dissident ideas and information. This is the original reason freedom of speech has been enshrined as an important value in our society, and it’s why leftists (the real kind) aggressively defend it.

When a rightist says they support free speech, they typically mean they want to be able to say racist things without any consequences and make mean jokes about trans people on social media. It’s less about holding power to account and more about being able to say what you want wherever you want for its own sake, because not being allowed to say what you want doesn’t feel very nice. This is what you’re looking at when you see Trump talking about the importance of free speech rights while also saying he wants to jail people for burning the American flag and telling donors he’ll crack down on pro-Palestine protests. He’s not promising the freedom to speak truth to power, he’s promising the freedom to say racial slurs and maintain the perceived current hierarchy of power

When a liberal says they support free speech, they typically mean they support free speech for themselves and people who think like them, and for the citizens of enemy countries like Iran and China. They’re more than happy to see speech critical of the powerful curbed in the name of stopping “disinformation” or “Russian propaganda”. They support Silicon Valley tech platforms collaborating intimately with US government agencies to suppress dissident ideas and information, so long as doing so doesn’t benefit a rival political faction. They believe their worldview is the way, the truth and the light, and that information needs to circulate in a way that helps others believe this too.

There are of course exceptions and variations on this; American libertarians are often an odd hybrid of the leftist and rightist schools of thought on free speech, for example. It’s good to be aware that when someone says they support free speech, they could mean something very, very different from what you mean when you say it.

Top Comments:
>When an anti-imperialist socialist says they support free speech, they mean they want the freedom to hold power to account, scrutinize their government’s actions, and share dissident ideas and information. This is the original reason freedom of speech has been enshrined as an important value in our society, and it’s why leftists (the real kind) aggressively defend it.

*Unless it's in China or some other anti-USA 'anti-imperialist' state then it's redefined as stopping subversion.
This reads like everyone is bad and is against free speech, I think a lot of people mix up me not liking what you said to me wanting to ban what you said and punish you.
>When a rightist says they support free speech, they typically mean they want to be able to say racist things without any consequences and make mean jokes about trans people on social media.

You're so clouded by your own ideology that you can't consider views other than your own without completely straw-manning and dismissing them? This is *exactly* why we need free speech.
>When an anti-imperialist socialist. ... it’s why leftists (the real kind) aggressively defend it.

Lol project much? Constitutists & liberals are considered "right wing". Progressives, leftists, support censorship of people unlike them and will gaslight people with lies.

Like both sides has a fascination with the word "nigger". For rightists, it's a very quick way to test falsehoods. For leftists, they have this racist idea that I have to remind you I am black to use it and if I don't then some whitey redneck hillbilly motherfuckers will call me a "racist piece of shit", report my post, and demand censorship. 

 Either way, just because this thread contains the word "nigger" and I'm not talking like a whitey. We assume and claim that you want to use racial slurs to insult people, because that's how you believe this works.
IMO, this post essentializes people holding different political views in an incredibly limiting way. Wide sweeping generalizations are of service to no one. While free speech gives you the right to air your thoughts…I couldn’t disagree more with what you’ve said. Parties aren’t monoliths.  One might lean towards one party or the other on the basis of a single issue, for example.  Perhaps when we start treating people like individuals, instead of members of a party, and engaging with one another with no assumptions in place, we will be able to not only speak freely…but listen well too.
Yeah I would agree with a lot of this, although of course not every right winger or liberal is like that but most but I would also say that as a leftist, I do care about free speech but I mod my spaces very differently. Some of my spaces you are gonna get banned simply for not being a leftist, because those spaces are for leftists to discuss things. Some of my other subs you are going to be able to be more free to debate and you can say anything that's not against the content policy (and I know a lot of you out there think that you can say a whole lot more on reddit that can you actually can- no promoting violence, you must respect gender identity, etc.) So while I actually care very much about free speech, that doesn't mean that every space should be a completely free speech space. That's just silly. What if someone wanted to make a space for victims of rape? Should they be forced to entertain those who are pro rape cause "free speech?" 

Getting banned on reddit is not a violation of free speech in my opinion but I do think that there should be more communities that are open to more discourse. I know it's frustrating to get banned from all the liberal subreddits for not liking the Democrats, I would know!