Title: Covid Lab Leak and Big Tech Censorship

Post:
The debate is over the origins of covid and whether a lab was involved.

&#x200B;

It seems that the theory [gaining mainstream credibility](https://www.cnn.com/2023/02/28/politics/wray-fbi-covid-origins-lab-china/index.html) is a win for free speech advocates after earlier it was [met with censorship](https://www.yahoo.com/video/covid-lab-leak-theory-shows-193828536.html).   Maybe this is something that advocates for free speech should take advantage of and highlight.

Top Comments:
I remain skeptical of the U.S.' intentions. Especially now with the balloons debacle, the US might be trying to attack China's reputation. It wouldn't be the first time the US did something like this.

I'm not saying the claim is false or true, I'm pointing out that it might be getting credibility in the news for the sake of free speech.
This isnt a win so much as an infuriating validation that needs to be screamed into the faces of millions of people forever and ever until be end of time. Fuck these people.
>Maybe this is something that advocates for free speech should take advantage of and highlight.

One of the main reaction to ppl saying it was a lab leak is that we didn't have the proof at the time. And to stop using it as the assumed truth just to attack ppl.

Even now there's a lot of critism that it was a lab leak. But it does seem in the governments favor to cast a disparaging light on China in the global political theater.
Yea but fauci/nih funded ecohealth alliance run by Peter daszak to do gain of function research on similar viruses at that specific institute of virology in wuhan. Then the government literally appointed daszak among others to investigate themselves, like for fuck sake.  Their are cleavage sites on the actually virus that indicate manipulation. Also it’s unprecedented ability to infect virtually all humans quickly with little need to mutate to survive. This virus was engineered or altered at the least by some scientist to become highly infectious to humans and maybe it was malfeasance that let it out, maybe malicious intent, but anything that can kill millions, destroy economies and crush nations should be thoroughly investigated and documented in the most transparent way. Sorry we’re all too busy focusing on not confidential confidential documents in trumps underpants they found in Biden’s garage.
Well said. The COVID debacle exposed these people and shows clearly why "misinformation" about an issue of intense public interest and importance should never be censored and that "misinformation" is whatever doesn't mesh well with the current agenda of the incompetent ruling class.
It's the spirit of it, not its legality...

With more censorship, it becomes more difficult as adults to weigh different sides of an issue or topic in order to make the best decisions. With less censorship, I have a better opportunity to hear more perspectives, exercise my critical thinking skills, thereby making better choices and growing as a person.

Yes, Amazon could legally ban 1000s of books on its websites if people protested against books with potential misinformation, hate (Plato and Hobbes come to mind), gender/race topics, and so forth, but we wouldn't be better for it.
Why is your usage of English so much like that of a crazy person?

What are you trying to accomplish?
Something we're not paying enough attention to is the role of propaganda.

The mainstream narrative is that all propaganda is a product of stupid people and "Russian bots", yet I know for a fact that the antivaxxer movement in Australia was bankrolled by a mining magnate.