Title: Why does the right support the suppression of free speech

Post:
1.6 billion people are Muslims in this world and 5%-8% of citizens of Western Countries and OCED nations.

Tens of millions of Americans have been screed over by the medical industry.

Yet supporting Palestine is grounds for public censure.

Condemning Israel which has violated international law is tantamount to treason

Expressing indignation toward the UHC CEO and subsequent thoughts and prayers is considered tasteless.

Yet people on the right celebrate the deaths of Muslims regularly while threatening genocide.

Israelis openly celebrate the deaths of children on social media while their army slaughters children.

I want to believe the internet is manipulated by bots but my experience IRL has been confirmation that people on the right will be responsible for ushering in our dystopian future.



Top Comments:
The only time either party cares about free speech is when they are the victims of censorship. Otherwise they wouldn’t bat an eye
because free speech is radically non-partisan. The right and the left don't care about **free** speech, they care about bolstering their own speech, and suppressing what they don't like. I too, got conned into thinking modern conservatism was the bastion of free speech among a landscape littered with leftist censorship.

Now that the tide has pulled conservatism into mainstream influence again they're immediately back to their old tricks.

Free speech advocacy will always be championed by those with less institutional power for a voice among those with more. The labels we slap on the face of those groups is transient.
Hamas, designated terror group is who you are supporting. They started the war. They still have hostages they rape and torture every night. This is who YOU support.
You sure about that?  Historically the left has been the bastion of free speech (In the US) Just because the left abandoned their free speech principles doesn’t mean the right actually suddenly values it.  It goes against the basic principles of conservatism.