Title: Should Large Tech/Social Media companies be held to certain standard when it pertains to free speech?

Post:
As a libertarian I go back and forth on this issue in my head alot. Yes facebook, twitter, reddit, google, are all private businesses and yes all private businesses have the right to do whatever they want. But this issue isn't so black and white. They completely monopolize a whole market and almost all americans use these platforms to communicate everyday. These companies are almost their own state in a way. I feel that they have a certain responsibility and if they want to continue doing business in America they should be held to federal law as it pertains to the first amendment.

Top Comments:
Tech/ social media companies should  not be forced into giving a platform to speech they disagree with; it is like you refusing to put a bumper sticker on your car that makes a statement you do not want associated with you... you are doing nothing to prevent that bumper sticker from being made, sold, or even  placed on other cars, you are just refusing to give your money to the makers of said offensive bumper sticker and to allow it to be seen on your vehicle while it is on the public road. You have the right to remove said sticker if someone placed it on your car without your consent, nor do you have to keep that sticker on even if they offer to pay you to keep it on your car.  That is not against any sort of free speech or against anyone's rights. The Constitution says nothing about being forced to listen to everyones free speech.
Disinformation that's shouting fire in a theater.

Allowing hostile forign subversion in the name of free speech is a terrible idea.




Go to a bar, restaurant or house and start calling people cunts and see what happens.
Ordinarily I'd say their companies, their rules, but I believe they are now too big to operate like a private company.  They take government funds and buy up/squash competition without impedance.
They're government contractors, and like all other government contractors they should be required to uphold the rights of individuals or they should become ineligible for government contracts. That's no different than if Northrop Grumman were to have a policy not to hire a specific race of employees. That would make them ineligible for government contracts...
I agree with the sentiment of what you're saying. But also, these companies monopolize the market in online communication. For example, that one conservative app Parler. I wasn't a user but google and apple banned it from their app stores. The only two places anyone with a phone can get an app legally.
Its kind of apples to oranges. They aren't just some guy with property and a small business.
Im all for capitalism and the free market. But we're in a different time and its not like i said so black and white.
I feel like this censored speech is a slippery slope into something more sinister. What happens if i say something google doesn't agree with and they lock my phone and online accounts to put me in a timeout?
I see a huge difference between a business deciding who they do business with, and a business that is a monopoly or otherwise preventing free market competition.  If FB, or Twitter bans me, it is easy enough for me to register a domain ($12 on Google Domains), and stand up a site/blog with little to no effort.  Then I can say anything I want, and allow other commenters to do the same (seriously it takes a basic understanding of navigating the Internet to set up a blog with comments).

Now if FB or Twitter "unfairly" puts me out of business that is different story.  If I'm hosted on Google or AWS, and I violate the terms of service agreement I have with that other business (such as with Parler & AWS), then this isn't unfair (this is FB & Twitter blocking content/users).  However, if a third entity engages in an "unfair" practices that are not considered to be free market competition, then that is an entirely separate issue (this is FB & Twitter violating anti-trust laws).