Title: Obama Lectures in the epicenter of tech education to promote censorship

Post:
Obama recently went to the heart of our tech sector's incubator for the future, Stanford University, to promote government regulation and censorship of content that is disagreeable to the left.

Please watch this chilling call to arms by our former president:

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ExEApwbhfqQ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ExEApwbhfqQ)

One of his main arguments is that "the very design" of internet news platforms seems to be "tilting us in the wrong direction" because they are designed to prioritize ad revenue above agnosticism. He of course weaponizes the fear of Covid as a way to prove his point, claiming that "people are dying because of misinformation" and of course he brings up the 2020 election to stir the pot of fear as well.

After he teases his upcoming memoire, he admits that tech platforms did not create divisions in society, racism, ethno-nationalism, sexism, etc. But, he points out that **it does have the potential to combat these things.**

He then tries to paint himself as a "first amendment absolutist" and he parrots the obvious by saying that the first amendment doesn't necessarily apply to private companies.

But then, the mask slips a little and he says that some things are truer than others. We need to agree on a set of principles, and core values to guide our decisions, he says. He will evaluate any proposal touching the internet thus:

1. Whether it strengthens or weakens the prospects for a healthy inclusive democracy
2. whether it encourages robust debate and respect for differences
3. whether it reinforces rule of law
4. whether it helps us make collective decisions
5. whether it recognizes the rights and freedom of all citizens

then he says:

**"Whatever changes contribute to that vision, I'm for. Whatever erodes that vision, I'm against. Just so you know."**

Watch the entire video to hear how he specifically wants the tech companies to behave, how he wants to increase government oversight, and how he wants to limit speech.

This man is a major threat to our democracy.

\-------

EDIT:

For any of you deniers and Obama lovers who cannot accept the fact that this man is a spokesperson for fascist government policies to control speech, I refer you to these direct quotes from his lecture (emphasis mine)

* I also think decisions like this shouldn't be left solely to private interests. These decisions affect all of us. And just like every other industry that has a big impact in our society, that means these big platforms need to be subject level to SOME LEVEL OF PUBLIC REGULATION."
* "regulation has to be part of the answer" to "SLOW THE SPREAD" of bad content. (yep, he used Covid rhetoric. So classy.)
* "At minimum they should have to SHARE INFORMATION WITH REGULATORS and" (government-appointed) "researchers."
* Tech companies should have to follow certain "SAFETY STANDARDS" as part of "the greater good."
* "we don't expect tech companies to solve these problems on their own. We do expect these companies to AFFIRM the importance of our democratic institutions." (liberals just love affirmation)
* "these companies need to have some other north star other than just making money and increasing market share."
* "Fix the problem that THEY HELPED CREATE"
* "to the students here who might well be future employees of these companies, you have the power to move things in the right direction. You can be part of this REDESIGN"

Top Comments:
So if I walk into your private business and call you a dirty cuck am I protected under 1A and free from reprisal and/or consequence? 

I think not. You’d kick me the fuck out in a heartbeat as you should and as is your right as a business owner.

Twitter, or any company, sets terms of use for their products and services. You agree to these the second you sign up. This is true of any and all social media sites.

What conservatives seem to conflate is your actual freedom of speech with social media use. It’s bizarre. A private company won’t let you call for the public hanging of Fauci or advocate for the use of an anti-parasitic drug for an unrelated infection in 240 characters or less and conservatives collectively lose their mind.

Why in Sam fuck would a company facilitate, or even allow behavior on their platform that would directly jeopardize profit? Say what you want about a social media company having a political agenda, but the reality is 9/10 times it’s about the bottom line.

It just so happens that inflammatory, often far-right rhetoric tends to not bode well for ad revenue and member retention. 

The government is not restricting your speech. You can say literally whatever the hell you want. You can go on speaking tours, write books, pass out pamphlets - you can literally disseminate any kind of information you want *on your own* OR find a willing third party medium. 

Expecting and demanding a private company to publish your words or media is bullshit.

For the record: if Musk decides to completely backtrack on the Twitter moderation that’s been done then he is EQUALLY within his rights as the sole owner of said company to determine its own rules and regulations.

Social media is the de facto medium of mass communication today. It is not the SOLE form of mass communication or publication.
I haven't slogged through the video but if your summary is accurate he's dead on regarding how prioritizing ad revenue above journalistic integrity is the cause of a lot of modern journalism trends. From clickbait culture and increasingly sensationalized and antagonistic writing, to the growth of tabloid level journalism and overt misinformation being dressed up as legitimate news.
a 1 hour video on a complicated topic, without the new link rules (SS); which has as a speaker an ex-president who, apparently, according to, generally, republicans is responsible for everything bad in the USA during the last few years; What could go wrong ?  
  
the libertarian version of this issue is that it is a private company and it will decide what it will and will not allow on its platform.  
  
democrats and people more on the left defend that freedom of expression and other rights are not a way to free people from the consequences of what was said and done, especially when these speeches and actions harm part of society, such as minorities, or the way of government that guarantee these rights to begin with (democracy and its democratic methods).  
  
Needless to say, people, private companies and political parties/institutions are not always right and can abuse their powers, so it is necessary to be vigilant and deal with these issues cautiously and seriously.
People did die of misinformation from covid spread through social media channels though; not really sure what’s so controversial about that. 

Social media is driven by add revenue and a good way to generate clicks is by pushing more extreme stuff into the eyeholes of people who are identified as one flavor of political or the other.
Obama greatest accomplishment was making the anti war left vanish overnight. His second greatest accomplishment has been accomplishing virtually nothing from his 2008 campaign rhetoric. Like closing gitmo, lol.
So what happens when the left spreads Russia collusion and fake dossier, and they silence opposition with evidence against vaccines as false, and they ban people as spreading fake information about Hunter Biden’s laptop? That’s as corrupt as it gets. They fear that they cannot silence facts anymore, and since they are acting as editors, they need to lose section 230 status.
It's by far the worst thing has has ever supported. It's not a coincidence that since he was elected the Left rapidly transformed from a "do what feels good, man" anti-war hippie movement to an authoritarian scold woke movement bordering on fascism.
This sounds like it could be taken either way. His list of requirements doesn’t sound too bad, except for number 4: “whether it helps us make collective decisions”

Imagine the ethical considerations in a system that helped a jury make a collective decision.  

What if, collectively, we don’t behave like an individual does? What if our collective is just an amorphous, aimless cloud because it’s just a mass of happy humans and not a school of fish?  

I think he probably didn’t mean forcing decisions. Maybe it’s the concept of a “collective decision” that bothers me. Government decisions, fine. Government’s an entity, with a name, with property, with a role.  

“The collective” isn’t something anyone birthed or named or formed or voted on. It just exists. It’s the world.  

Maybe that’s what a libertarian is. Someone for whom other people are part of the world, not part of a group project.
Yea, Obama going to tech companies and advocating for ideology that he believes will lead to a better democracy is perfectly fine and tracks with libertarianism actually quite well.

Instead of having his buddy Biden try to leverage the federal government Obama is choosing the private sector to solve this problem.

As libertarians we should applaud former politicians trying to use private sector solutions to solve problems because it reinforces the ideology. Obama clearly agrees that the government can’t solve this problem.

The only reason this would make you angry is because your a republican and are trained to hate Obama.

Everything he said was pretty neutral in terms of goals. And misinformation about Covid killed my uncle. So OP can get out from under his rock.