Title: The Facebook "whistleblower" may be a ploy to further Big Tech censorship

Post:
That Washington and the corporate media back her up indicates that she does not mean to challenge the establishment's attempt to control free speech.

See an analysis by journalist Glenn Greenwald: [https://greenwald.substack.com/p/democrats-and-media-do-not-want-to](https://greenwald.substack.com/p/democrats-and-media-do-not-want-to)

Top Comments:
the tweet I saw showed her testimony I think she was explicitly calling for a some sort of commission to determine truth
Off course it is ... what else would it be?

Stating that angry people, getting angrier, in a World under psychopathic leadership, is **the** problem ... is a ploy to create an alibi for psychopathic leadership to suppress the anger they cause and punish the angry people.

In a way it is beautiful in it's simplicity.
When I heard the quote that they operate for profit instead of morality I knew.

It isn't the responsibility of companies to be moral. The last place I would look to for moral values would be the management of a tech cartel.
Bingo.

If you want to see how the media treats *actual* whistleblowers, look at Snowden and Assange.  The fact that she wasn't declared a techno-terrorist by the White House and the media, didn't have trumped up rape or treason charges brought against her, and isn't being chased around the globe to whatever countries might not extradite her, means she's not doing any actual whistleblowing.

This is a coordinated, corporate approved "upset" with the support of the state, the media, and the tech cartel.  The only one who doesn't seem to directly benefit is Zuckerberg, who's been visibly reluctant to carry out the censorship agenda of the rest of the social media trust (not that he refuses to do it, but he drags his feet a little).  He's being put in his place, so that Facebook learns to be more promptly obedient like a good little Twitter.
I don't think she ever claimed to stand for free speech. She only stands against profiteering in the face of what she perceives as negative user outcomes.

And given how radically left most employees in her position are, it's far more likely that she is a useful idiot than a plant.
May be?  What other “whistleblower” gets a senate hearing, a 60 minutes interview, and the support from the company she is whistleblowing on from the outcome of that hearing all within 48 hours? 

Jen Psakis PR firm is behind.  Obama admin advisors advise her. Mainstream media supports her.  

This is a set up to come after the actual free speech sites with legislation.  This is a deep state move.  It could not be any more obvious.
glad someone else sees this.  If facebook is "toxic" then all social media is "toxic" for the same reasons.  But if you look at all the articles being pumped to the front of r/technology with tons of awards, they are all talking about Zuckerberg's % stake in the company and the power he holds.  Between this and the cyber attacks this is an internal power struggle for control of facebook.  

They don't care that it makes money of course, they want more control of what people can say on it.
I watched the hearings. I don’t have alignment with the accusations concerning teen girls. They said that Instagram can make teen girls depressed because they feel they don’t achieve the body image that other women on Instagram have. While I think that is probably true, I don’t see that as specific to Instagram. The same has been said of a lot of media that targets teens or women. Facebook already had a target on their back. I think the existing dislike of Facebook is causing the stronger reaction.