Title: Great post about free markets and the Spotify situation. (Copied from a Facebook post)

Post:
A friend asked me today why, being the strong advocate of freedom of association and free markets that I am, I am so opposed to cancel culture.

Isn't it just the free market at work?

Short answer: No. It is not.

Longer answer: There's a big difference between individuals making choices for themselves, deciding which companies they want to reward with their own dollars on whatever basis they deem appropriate, and deliberately trying to prevent *other* people from exercising the same right. 

In other words, it's not simply your own "consumer choice" to tell OTHER consumers what they're allowed to listen to, watch, or buy.

One thing I've found a lot of people seem to struggle with in these conversations is the idea that there's not actually always a big bright line where criticism ends and coercion begins.

Sometimes it's easy to see.

When a mob of people overtakes a public space shouting in people's faces, blocking their access to a speaker, or physically assaulting them for trying to speak or listen to a speaker... We should all recognize this as not merely "the marketplace of ideas" but as harassment and intimidation designed to silence ideas.

The same can be true online. When millions of strangers flood someone's Twitter, publish their private information, and drive them off a large platform, what we are seeing is not consumer choice... But harassment. 

Historically, we have long recognized (both colloquially and in the law) that harassment is coercive. 

It is an attempt to make someone's life miserable in order to force them to change their behavior... And in cases where harassment is being used to shut people up for speaking "unacceptable" words and ideas, it's coercion aimed at censorship. 

And... Before we go any further here, for the millionth time, YES private citizens and corporations can - and frequently do - censor speech.

We refer to standards and practices people at TV networks as "censors"... Because that's what they are.

They are there to limit speech. Most of which they are not required to do by law.

Censorship is not and has never been a practice solely reserved for the government. To claim otherwise is a weird, recent rationalization from people who desperately want to deny that cancel culture exists (while simultaneously applauding it for ridding the world of "bad people").

The thing is, we don't necessarily need to debate the nuances of where to draw the line between aggressive criticism or advocacy and coercive harassment.

What we should often be looking here at is the intent of the action.

Is your goal to silence someone for saying something you don't like, or to prevent others from being able to hear that person's ideas?

Well... That is a censorious impulse.

Those of us who care about freedom should be concerned wherever this impulse rears its ugly head. 

Even though it is (and should be!) perfectly legal and part of the marketplace of ideas to advocate that no one listen to someone like Joe Rogan ever again, it's not a sign of a healthy or a free society to try to strong arm businesses with the goal of censoring someone they employ because you don't like what they say. 

None of this is really commensurate with a fully free society, even if I wouldn't -- and I never would -- call for the government to prevent (most of) it.

Thus I believe it is worth criticizing when it happens.

And note here that there is a significant difference between criticism - the act of expressing disagreement or dissatisfaction with someone's actions, words, or ideas - and trying to silence them.

The critic does not silence. He adds to the conversation.

He is participating in a robust culture of free speech.

The mob shouting down a speaker attempting to prevent others from hearing what they have to say is not.

Again, making a choice for yourself is different than trying to limit choice for others.

Anyone who tried to get Colin Kaepernick fired would be guilty of attempted "canceling". But not anyone who simply decided to stop watching the NFL because they were annoyed with politics creeping into football.

Likewise, harassing Gina Carano on social media and demanding that Disney fire her for things she said is not the same as making the personal choice to no longer pay for a Disney+ subscription because they caved to the mob.

When I was a kid, we had the Parents Media Resource Center. 

Most of their efforts were "private", and built around these kinds of coordinated complaints, calling up TV networks, radio stations, and record companies, demanding that the artists they hated get taken off the air.

It was absurd then and even as a kid I thought it was stupid, and it's even more absurd now. 

It's also much worse now, given the immense increase in the size of these kinds of mobs made possible by social media and the fact that instead of telling them to pound sand, the TV networks, record companies, social networks, news media, and almost everybody else in major positions of cultural authority have acquiesced to their demands or become part of the mob themselves.

In the 90s, most people with any social status at all made fun of the "church ladies" and Tipper Gores of the world... today, they're joining them.

This is all a sign of a very sick society that can't handle debate or disagreement without wanting to stop other people from being able to express their viewpoints. That's not a society any of us should want to live in.

Top Comments:
>This is all a sign of a very sick society that can't handle debate or disagreement without wanting to stop other people from being able to express their viewpoints. That's not a society any of us should want to live in.

So here is my thing, let's say this is true right, the idea that shutting out ideas rather than being capable of debating or disagreeing in good faith is the sign of a very sick society.  The fact that these artists are the inspiration for this post and not this new trend of legislating what teachers can talk about isn't.  Or this latest run on banning more and more books.  

I also think your leaving out of the nature of the relationship between spotify and JRE is problematic.  If the podcast was still just a normal podcast, available where all podcasts are, including Spotify, I imagine this would not be much a problem for these artist.  In the context of the deal between them though,  spotify is very much part of the podcast.  It is brought to you by spotify, funded by spotify money and only available on spotify.
Jesus now we have people ‘s shit FB posts being reposted here

Say it it 1/10 the words next time
Boycotts are not censorship. I wanted to add something to make this comment longer, but really just the one sentence is required.
I mean are books being banned? Like you can't buy them anywhere or are they just not allowed to be taught in school? I mean the author Henry Miller's books were banned, meaning you couldn't buy them in the United States, people would have to smuggle them across the border to bring them here. Is this new wave of book "banning" that or just not being taught in school? Also, while not being able to teach something in school is absolutely absurd, it's not really a wide spread thing affecting students throughout the United States. But this Spotify thing is something that is wide spread affecting millions of people.

Maybe the relationship is problematic, but you don't have to listen to it and if it bothers someone that much they don't have to use Spotify. But that's not what's going on, Neil Young is demanding Spotify end it's relationship with the JRE so others can't have the choice to listen to it or not.
Banned by school districts, but it fits into a larger trend that we are seeing of essentially dictating what topics are being taught or discussed in schools.  Either way, I dont have a choice in paying for public utilities like schools, where as you said I could opt out of spotify.

Honestly though, I guess it is your second point where the disconnect seems so weird to me.  

>Maybe the relationship is problematic, but you don't have to listen to it and if it bothers someone that much they don't have to use Spotify.

Great, I vote with my wallet and my attention and opt for a competing platform.  


>Neil Young is demanding Spotify end it's relationship with the JRE so others can't have the choice to listen to it or not.

No he isnt.  He has not power to demand spotify do anything.  He is doing exactly what you told me to do, if one has a problem with what spotify is doing, stop using spotify.  If the thing he doesnt like is this deal with Rogan, than of course if they changed that he would come back, but he has no authority to make any demands.  

We are both doing business with spotify, whether it is him letting them use his music or me paying to listen to his music.  We are both free to not do business with them if we dont agree with their practices.  No one is being censored.  

I mean even beyond that, let's say Neil Young is so influential that he can take down the top podcaster in the world, Joe Rogan can still just use literally every other podcast platform in the world.  There is not even a risk of him being censored in any outcome.
>In other words, it's not simply your own "consumer choice" to tell OTHER consumers what they're allowed to listen to, watch, or buy.

You've literally described a boycott.