Title: Why you can't ban misinformation from social media.

Post:
[I got Twitter for misinformation again today.](https://twitter.com/JFMV763/status/1480602496208883713) (Here was the [first time](https://twitter.com/JFMV763/status/1436138011885019136) for those curious, Brady plays for Tampa Bay not Dallas).

I find it odd that a platform which seems to be very open about fact-checking and fighting misinformation has itself posted misinformation multiple times now (at least according to my record, there are probably other instances that I have not caught).  If they can't even stop themselves from spreading misinformation why should they or other big tech companies feel as though they should be able to remove what they deem as misinformation? Some people bring up the distinction that they should only remove disinformation which seems to be defined as misinformation with bad intent but that means you would have to look into the intent of everything posted online and there is not a way to do that currently. I know one of the arguments I will likely get to this post is, "but that misinformation is not potentially deadly", to which I will reply in advance that any misinformation is potentially deadly depending on the circumstance (what if someone threatened to shoot you if you didn't get their obscure trivia questions right?).

Thoughts?

Top Comments:
Nobody gets hurt because they think the wrong person won American Idol 10 years ago, or think a football player is on a different team. But people do get hurt when people make up lies about the vaccine to discourage people from getting it, or get told about snake oil Covid treatments that can land them in the hospital. 

Twitter has to ensure the safety of its users, so speech like calls to violence, death threats, and dangerous misinformation get removed so people don’t get hurt, or end up hurting themselves. Plus, 90% of the time they leave misinformation up, and just give it a spoiler tag letting people know its false or misleading.
Are you really comparing the misprint of “he won” vs “he’s runner up” and “Tom Brady plays for Dallas” vs “Brady plays for Tampa Bay” to MJT saying “Vaccines don’t work,” and Trump saying “The election was stolen?” If anyone has ever pointed a gun at someone and said if you don’t tell me whether Aiken was a runner up or a winner of American Idol, I’ll shoot you, then shit maybe I’ll stand corrected but clearly Donald Trump making half of Republicans think an election was fraudulent without any evidence (Before you reply tell me where it was in the courts) is dangerous to our democracy and MJT making shit up about vaccines just to get support and rile up her followers can have serious public health consequences. There’s just no comparison. I get that misinformation is misinformation but the examples you brought up are essentially typos that have little to no serious repercussions whereas i assume the others you are talking about (Trump, MJT, etc.) are major public figures who had lots of followers and were repeatedly spreading misinformation that doesn’t only matter in some obscure circumstance you pulled out of your ass.
Jimbo you really think this gonna help you get elected? 

&#x200B;

>what if someone threatened to shoot you if you didn't get their obscure trivia questions right?

Sounds like cause to sue Twitter. Can we all just take a moment to say how dumb this is... 

I'm curious to what your day job is.
You can't ban it. But I also think you can't half ass it. You can't just go after political misinformation. That just seems wrong to let people buy into whatever the internet tells them on any other subject.
Who decides misinformation? Who becomes the arbitrator of truth? Because even the worse conspiracies can have some truth to them where is the line drawn? Censoring speech and debate is fundamentally wrong and should never happen.
I just wish for a week that twitter or some social media sight would just switch biases. Hire a bunch of office workers from the Deep South as a temp job in moderating just to see the whining and complaining the left would suddenly do about social media censorship.
Imagine writing this assult on speech unironically while pretending to value liberty. 

Pretending speech = violence is a tool statists use to justify theirs.
We can't judge the intent of them when they say that. If they truly  believe that vaccines don't work or that the election was stolen I think that they should have every right to express that in my view, regardless of how much I disagree with it. Otherwise you get to removing things based on subjectivity, which misinformation is okay to remove and which isn't, there isn't going to be a clearly defined line between them.
I work part time in data entry. Jobs are hard to come by for people like me since I'm on the Autism spectrum and not legally allowed to drive.

Edit: Saw your removed comment, a physician barred me from driving twice (once in 2014, once in 2019) because I had trouble focusing while doing it.