Title: This new generation of young people have lost the value for free speech.

Post:
Every single sub I follow, is filled with anti-free-speech comments.

Lately, I've been starting to see aggressive pigeonholing, gaslighting, and character attacks used in general language subconsciously in what looks like an attempt to cut down free thought and free speech. It's developing even in our languages.

And then there are new trending terms that I've never heard young people use in a free country before... terms like

"Sowing discord"

What the fuck even is that? How is 'discord' a bad thing? And how is sharing your personal opinions "sowing?"

It's that psychotic "Jahr Null" mentality. The youngins want to purge all of society and culture, and allow their leaders to create what they've been indoctrinated to perceive as a "better new", abandoning all the things that have worked for humanity for thousands of years. All the freedoms and rights that millions of women and men have worked with these democratic systems around the world to provide. The young generation of adults do not realize that they are a PRODUCT of this system. Not creators nor influencers. Their influence is ZERO. They do not have the historical context to see that they've been molded by think tanks since the time they were toddlers. They weren't alive in the 90's and early 2000's to see the forced changes (social, cultural, and financial) that came from the top down.

They're all sold on "progress" and "improvement," not realizing that this progress and improvement is created from the top-down and then spread through media. It is not meant for them. Those poor naive  fucking fools.

Anytime a CEO, corporate leader, celebrity, or politician anywhere on earth tries to sell you "change" or "progress", it's not actually change or progress meant FOR YOU. It's just a false pretext. You can go back in history as far as you want, and you will see that I am right about this 9 times out of 10.

The progress and improvement is aimed at industry leaders and billionaires. They could not give any less of a shit for how quality of life or freedoms for the common person will look like. And the proof is in the ever increasing cost of living, the ever decreasing quality of life and free time, and the ever increasing retirement age, even though a third of people already die before ever seeing retirement. Being forced to DIE on the job, is NOT true progress. These trends are happening all over the world.

And unironically, the young generation believes fully in eugenics too. They want to abort anyone who shows even the slightest sign of being neurologically or physically divergent in any way. In fact, a good chunk of people on the right also hypocritically support eugenics, inspite of claiming to be pro-life. example [https://www.huffpost.com/entry/a-moral-duty-to-abort\_b\_59c3a01ae4b0ffc2dedb5b3c](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/a-moral-duty-to-abort_b_59c3a01ae4b0ffc2dedb5b3c)

If it was up to them, Albert Einstein would have been aborted before he could have been born.

We're headed in the wrong direction as a society. \*Either that, or troll bots are taking over.

Top Comments:
I don't think young people have been taught that you cannot have a functioning democratic society without free speech. It's what allows for innovation, progress, the challenging of societal beliefs and norms, and holding truth to power. All things they claim to support. They have a noble goal with trying to eliminate racism and bigotry, but the way they are going about it is deeply flawed and dangerous. Unfortunately, free speech means that people may also challenge *your* beliefs and hold truth to *your* power is well. Or they may use it to say vile things. But the positives far outweigh the negatives. Societies that don't make freedom of speech a fundamental right, even with the best intentions, tend to be at best stagnant. Which is unfortunately the direction ours is currently heading in.
I've noticed this as well.  MSNBC does this.  Every sentence out of their mouths was "The Trump Economy" or "In The Trump Whitehouse".

therefore everything Trump was bad and everything Not Trump was good.

Therefore in reddit threads, anything Trump Good was Misinformation and they wanted to ban it.  It's pure low IQ programming and they fell for it hook line and sinker
>And then there are tending terms that I've never heard young people use in a free country... terms like

>"Sowing discord"

I've also heard "spew" a lot recently. Like, "spew hate", "spew conspiracy theories" 

Also, "belch", as in "Trump belched out a speech..."

It's like speech you don't like, needs to have an unflattering adjective in front of it, just so people are primed to reject it.
It's not new.

Everyone has been trying to censor art expression forever.

When was a teen the main offender was the religious right
Yup. History is about to start rhyming. Life will get really, really bad until the mind virus infecting progressives is purged.
Gen Z are super indoctrinated, even worse than millennials were. It's even worse in big cities which are like massive echo chambers all repeating the same message.
it's parents fault, kids these days are brainless bcs of technology and lack of parenting..little dirtbags didn't get much love and parenting, and i'm talking about the kids that are 24/7 online...pure brainless evil
 I think freedom of speech may change from generation to generation, me form, but not the point. It either exists or is stifled by censorship, as it was hundreds of years ago, when alternative opinions were suppressed and dissenters were punished in every way. However, now it seems to me that thanks to the development of decentralized social media like Solcial, there are new opportunities to really freely express oneself and speak out without the restrictions of censorship, and this is encouraging, inspiring optimism that all is not so bad with our freedom of speech, despite the "efforts" of governments and other regulators.
Remember that social media is really only about a decade old at this stage and it’s a massive experiment. Sadly the algorithms are designed to get engagement so the loudest voices are the most extreme. I just hope it all works out. I think the bigger issue is the universities who used to have debating of different sides and anyone could debate any side regardless of their own views. We seem to have lost that.