Title: How to Combat Big Tech Censorship - Steven Crowder explains how conservatives must fight against Big Tech to preserve free speech

Post:


Top Comments:
This is not going away until the government steps in and saves everyone. It sucks, but at the end of the day not even a large group of people can take down big tech and big money.
There are technical solutions to this problem. Things like activity pub and the Fediverse. The issue is the network effect. Chicken and egg problem. Once we get a critical mass adoption we could move the social network to the protocol level.
 "government steps in and saves everyone " It is the government who gives billions of dollars for the data harvested by these companies. 

The private sector wants to make money. The government seeks absolute power and control over absolutely everything. It all starts with control of our thoughts and speech by harvesting and analysis of our thoughts and speech.
Government regulations is the only way to keep YouTube and other tech giants from censoring. I understand what you are saying. But there’s no other way for freedom of speech to be enforced on these platforms.
See, regulations might also be part of the problem. Business regulations are many and plentiful, making it hard for the little guy, like me, to start an ISP company, build a large social media platform, or information-neutral sharing site because it's too damn expensive to get started. Also, I totally understand where you come from, but private companies need to follow existing laws regarding publishers and platforms before we move to completely wipe out a tech company's right to freedom of association. Side note, hate the BS corporate censorship of tech companies, so do not think I am trying to defend their actions, for I simply offering the benefits and drawbacks of existing/further regulation.
Perhaps. History shows that viable competition serves as the impetus for a better product. Google, Facebook, Twitter, and Youtube have little in the way of viable competition. They are all veritable orgies of leftist thinking and policies. 

Conservatives may have to co-operate and "manufacture" competition that allows traditional thinking. 

Name some areas where government regulations have actually helped more than hurt.  It always looks so good - on paper. Then they hire control freaks than can not be fired. Power always corrupts. Government is raw power.
I 100% agree that problem comes from a lack of competition and maybe what needs to happens is the government to break up these massive tech companies to allow a freer market place.

If you look back on the company standard oil (the company that owned almost all oil on Earth) you can see that when it was broken up a better market place was formed.

Either way it sucks that Freedom of Speech is under attack and hopefully this tech companies can be reined in.