Title: How do libertarians feel about current events involving Big Tech censorship(both commercially and on the individual level)? What is your solution to avoid issues in the near future?

Post:
My hearing of Parler being banned from the app stores kicked all this off. I forsee it being shadowbanned through search results, servers not wanting to rent out to them, etc and thus just completely disappear. I think the political and corporate status quo see them as a threat and will do morally questionable but perfectly legal things, whatever in their power, to castrate or eliminate them completely.

In the 21st century, it seems free speech is a myth and global megacorps pay other global megacorps to eliminate their economic and political competition through censorship. 

Its ironic they had all those huge monopoly investigations into Big Tech and social media last year, but now that it fits the leftist political agenda this will surely go unanswered by the democrat controlled supreme authority. Dystopia looks great. What a time to be alive. 

Google, Facebook, and Twitter were all proven to be working together maliciously to either buy off and integrate or completely eliminate and censor any opposition in the past. Who owns the majority of the internet? It is no longer a free and public space. Soon we will be like China and all wrongthink will be BLOCKED from our access.

We live in an era where we are all expected to use the internet. Professionally, economically, and socially... Its where we get our news, find information(such as on dissenting political ideologies), keep up with friends and family, work or at least find work, buy and sell goods, etc. What is the solution if Big Tech censors everything that they just don't like? If they use it for political gains or be paid by someone who does? How do we get past the "private company who can do whatever they want" argument, reconcile our fundamental beliefs of free will AND free speech, and protect ourselves from corporate domination?

Top Comments:
Free speech? Your use of that term is incorrect. Free speech (1st amendment) is between the people and the government. Stop using it as a link between the people and businesses. Unless you think I can say whatever I want at work without a company being able to fire me?
Social media companies have a right to enforce their TOS but they also subject themselves to antitrust when they buy up all the major platforms.
It must really suck to be a conservative right now.

Once staunch defenders of the free market, they now find themselves on the wrong end of it, as it turns out these evil big tech companies and many of their users don't particularly want to hear about their backwards worldviews, or the nonsense spewed by their moron president.

It really sucks, but unfortunately, this IS the free market in action.  I would feel sorry for you, but after everything we have all had to sit and watch for the last 4 years, I have lost any shred of sympathy I may have had.  You brought this upon yourselves, now deal with the consequences of your own actions.

Fuck your feelings.  Sincerely, the 52% of America that represents the present and the future.
When said censorship is politically motivated and used for political gain or to seize power, is that not involving the government?
How about a thought experiment then?

Lets say, hypothetically, everyone banned is not actually "advocating violence", or breaking whatever TOS rule claimed. It's just an easy cover to deny service, because of political or commercial motivations.

What do you say then?
I think you're pointing out the bigger issue here. Twitter and Google can ban whatever content they want, and I see no problem with those corporations having the freedom to do that. The real issue is a small number of corporations being almost exclusively used to access information and to communicate online.

I think this is a failure on the part of consumers for not educating themselves, a failure on the part of competitors for not effectively introducing visible/accessible alternatives and a failure of government for either inhibiting or failing to promote competition. In any case I don't understand why OP is suggesting that the major tech companies themselves are obligated to fix this problem when those companies are just acting in their own best interest.
I know the concept of a "public utility" and "utilities as a human right" are generally the opposite of libertarian ideals and views, but does anyone think that the internet is fast approaching this space? That it, if not already today, in the near future will be used to stiffle the masses and silence political opponents, thus being detrimental to our society as a whole?

I want to ask this question in particular elsewhere but not sure where; seeing as how most of this website is a marxist/neoliberal echochamber, and if I mention any relevant current events like here it will be then shadowed over by "haha orange man bad/get fucked nazi fascists/byeee" because we all know how badly and for how long a lot of people wanted Parler to go and for right-leaning voices in general to be silenced. Anyone who thinks it was about "incitement of violence" is a fool with the wool pulled over their eyes IMO.

We can easily ask "Why was the left never treated the same way after over half a year of literally organizing violent riots all over the country and malicious doxxing of people, on these same websites? But I digress.