Title: Discovery granted in case alleging collusion between Biden admin and Social media companies to censor factual news stories that could have influenced election

Post:
[Federal Court Grants Discovery Motion In Lawsuit Against Biden | Newsbusters](https://www.newsbusters.org/blogs/free-speech/autumn-johnson/2022/07/14/federal-court-grants-discovery-motion-lawsuit-against)

"Reclaim The Net reported that the ruling allows Missouri Attorney General Eric Shmitt and Louisiana Attorney GeneralJeff Landry to formally start the document collection process as the lawsuit moves forward. The defendants have to respond or object to the plaintiffs’ requests within 30 days of receipt.

“The First Amendment obviously applies to the citizens of Missouri and Louisiana, so Missouri and Louisiana have the authority to assert those rights,” the court orderobtained by Reclaim The Net said.

The court also rejected the defendants’ argument that producing discovery at this time would be burdensome. 

“Certainly, it would be time-consuming to produce the information requested," the court said. "However, this issue involves the alleged violation of a constitutional right – the right of free speech.”

Last month, NewsBusters reported that Schmitt and Landry sued the Biden administration for colluding with social media platforms to censor the Hunter Biden laptop story among others:

>“Freedom of speech is the very bedrock of this great nation, and needs to be protected and preserved. The federal government’s alleged attempts to collude with social media companies to censor free speech should terrify Missourians and Americans alike. Recently, my Office filed a lawsuit against the Biden Administration for that alleged collusion, and today we’re filing a motion for preliminary injunction to put a stop to it. We may have forced the Biden Administration to forego its Disinformation Governance Board, but there is still a very real threat to Missourians and Americans’ right to free speech. The federal government must be halted from silencing any more Americans, and this motion for preliminary injunction intends to do just that.”

The plaintiffs also claim the administration threatened the companies with government action if they did not cooperate.

"Having threatened and cajoled social-media platforms for years to censor viewpoints and speakers disfavored by the Left, senior government officials in the Executive Branch have moved into a phase of open collusion with social-media companies to suppress disfavored speakers, viewpoints, and content on social-media platforms under the Orwellian guise of halting so-called ‘disinformation,' ‘misinformation,’ and ‘malinformation,’" the lawsuit alleged."

So now they are gathering the evidence. Since we have video of Jen Psaki and others announcing their intent to collude as well as a document in which the DHS announced its intent to operationalize public private partnerships to censor on Twitter, this will almost certainly go to the plaintiffs. The government colluding with social media companies to direct censorship is probably a first amendment violation, and I am sure that the 6-3 supreme court will agree.

\-edit

[Missouri-v.-Biden-Govt-Social-Media-Collusion-Case-Complaint.pdf (legalinsurrection.com)](https://legalinsurrection.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/Missouri-v.-Biden-Govt-Social-Media-Collusion-Case-Complaint.pdf)

A link to the court document of the complaint for the lawyers in the community to look at.

Top Comments:
The laptop continues to bring more and more issues to light. This story is one that pushed me over the edge in thinking WTF is going on? Democrats spent millions and called for numerous investigation regarding Trump, his family, nominees and others. Then this laptop comes out and it's "misinformation" and a Russian conspiracy according to.the FBI. Why is the FBI providing misinformation? If this gotbthe same air time as Trump's taxes the election could have had very different results.

Now these is this case and even Hunter's iCloud. The corruption and other illegal activity is getting more light. 

If you cared about Trump's taxes, Chinese Bank account, the business dealings of Trump's kids, etc you should care about this. 

(I am not a Trumpbot, just hate hypocrisy for those making ass-u-mptions)
This all sounds fine, but it would only work in a nation of laws. Since the government is free to ignore the law, this suit's going nowhere.
You are aware that his showing all the signs of progressed dementia, right? America you see that right? Because it’s getting to a stage where it’s more concerning then entertaining and honestly in my country this would be considered elderly abuse
Batshit crazy christofascist bullshit from batshit crazy christofascist bullshitters given standing by a batshit crazy christofascist judge. 

Got it

FFS