Title: Free speech and Social Media

Post:
If the founders of the United States were told that in the future you could stand on the rooftop of a few select nearby stores and your speech would be heard by the entire world, what do you think they would say? Do you think anything would change? 


I personally think that out of the fear for the British monarchy's propaganda, they would have restricted this ability. 


But if they were told about how you can potentially spread highly damaging lies instantly to millions of people, they might reconsider.


What do you guys think?

Top Comments:
I think deciding what is a good or a bad idea for the present circumstances, according to some imagined ideal of "what would the Founders think?" is a pretty terrible procedure.  
In the first place, it tends to lead to the result that people say, with little regard for the evidence, "the founders would have thought that [insert my opinion here] because they would have seen that [insert my reasoning here]".  
In the second place, though, even if the problems of the above could be avoided... they were just some people, you know? Very smart in some instances, very well-informed (about the facts of the world they lived in), but they didn't have divine, ineffable wisdom to answer all questions for all time with perfect sagacity.  

What does framing the question of how to best regulate and manage social media gain by being about the imagined opinions of some people who died centuries ago?
My guess is they were very aware of effects of changes to communication technology.  The first daily newspapers were just starting to be published in the 1700's, they saw a giant leap forward in their times as the printing press improved and became a more accessible think.

It had a huge effect on the way information was consumed, and often had a similar effect, lending credence to misinformation.  

No though, I am fairly confident they would not change their minds on restricting speech.
They already knew people had the ability to do this, as they did it themselves. Printing pamphlets and publishing in papers spread information around the nation and world. Technology just sped up the time, as well as making it cheap enough for everyone to do it. Given that Ben Franklin was both inventor and influential founding father, they would have known that technology would do this over time. It's the same argument about modern firearms and the 2nd amendment; they knew.
What makes you think those millions of people can't discern truth or lie for themselves? 

And if not, who then would you say should decide truth or lie to these millions? You? The government that you elect?
A lie can be the truth to somebody else. It’s hard to draw the line of what’s a lie and what’s the truth. You can put in your own personal opinions as to justify it as a lie or a truth but then it just becomes an opinion. Free speech is a very important aspect to keep a free society. I think ultimately letting people say what they want is less damaging than letting a select few decide what sort of way to bend the truth.
I think you should go back to r/conservative. Businesses don't owe anyone anything, let alone a platform. You don't get to infringe on a businesses right to freedom of speech and expression. Businesses should be allowed to discriminate for any reason, except against minorities, climate change activists, trans-people (no misgendering) and progressives.
I also think that a lot of these problems with insane people on social media would have bene prevented if the founders (impossibly) predicted the level of influence that they would have on social media. 



Or if people had just listened to the concept of "corporations being too large to be stopped" in the first place, instead of waiting until they were personally affected.
First of all please format correctly...


Second of all, yes, they were just some people, not gods. I'm just speculating and asking your opinion. 


I don't want to be rude but if you don't have an opinion maybe just don't post in the thread asking for an opinion lol.