Title: What do you use free speech on social media for?

Post:
What are the important aspects of free speech on a social media platform? Can you rank them? 

* Engage with people with different views to learn from them/test my thinking
* Argue with others to convince them that different ideas are better
* Find people who think similarly to strengthen ourselves
* Learn about news or new topics 
* Engage with friends in wide-ranging conversations
* Discover people I enjoy talking to on controversial topics, whether we agree or not
* Something else?

What are the worst parts of social media free speech for you?

* Seeing content you don't like (examples: porn, violence, racism, trolling)
* Illegal content (child porn, etc)
* Risking friendships, jobs, college acceptance, etc
* Makes people more argumentative

Top Comments:
The premise of your question is false.

Social media is not a free speech platform.  It’s neither a public place or a public accommodation.

It runs on privately owned hardware, on mostly closed source software, run by private companies, for-profit, for the purpose of commercial advertising market targeting.

And you have to agree to legal terms, agreeing to be censored or bounced at their full discretion, before you can post content.

Not only isn’t it a free speech platform, it cannot be.
I joined thefacebook.com and it's how I'm able to communicate to people I know and trust from a wide variety of backgrounds living throughout the world today. I'm not really there to make friends so much as keep track of them. I'm there be updated about the world from their perspectives, because I have a better idea of where they're coming from when their perspectives start to diverge from mine. I can't do that with most people on the internet. That's the most important free speech aspect of social media: being able to communicate with people you trust.

The worst part of social media free speech is that just rules protect the guilty as much as the innocent.
As private companies, social media platforms can take on any policy and features they want.

Companies generally want to make at least some people happy with their product - or it won't be used. Given this flexibility, what policies/abilities matter to you?
>The premise of your question is false.
>
>Social media is not a free speech platform.

OP didn't call it a "free speech platform" and that's not a thing that can be. Free speech exists somewhere on the slippery slope between allowing unfiltered noise that prevents all speech from being heard and the dead silence that comes from not allowing any speech.

OP asked about free speech on social media, where plenty of people manage to say things other people don't believe should be said. That disagreement over what speech is tolerate and what isn't is where the free speech concerns exist.
What kind of trust are you thinking of? 

* Coming from a good place as friends?
* Understand why they have a particular perspective?
* Can share views without being cancelled?
Well, sure, if you find the service useful, that’s great, but that’s only a nice secondary by-product.

Social media companies aren’t giving you a platform out of the goodness of their hearts.  They’re only interested in giving you features that encourage you to post more. And those aren’t necessarily the features you want. More posts, the better they’ve profiled you for ad filtering. Period full stop.

>> *“happy with their product”*

True. And the only two people they’re obligated to make happy are advertisers and investors, not users.

If there was a social media platform where the users are actually the customers, sure, I could make a list.  But since that doesn’t exist, what’s the point?
Again, there is no free speech on social media.

If something you post is allowed to stay, or gets labeled, or gets removed, it’s because the platform owner allows it or disallows it for whatever purpose they want, and not because your speech is free.
Difficult to make advertisers happy unless users show up and get value. 

Wasn't meaning to launch into a discussion about capitalism. I built a social media platform and I'm asking a genuine question about what you want to see.
You need to take a breath, listen to what people are trying to communicate to you, not get stuck on what you think a phrase means, but how it is being used in context. Because you are still missing the point.
But as I said, and happy to say again, social media sites will only give you features that maximize the time you use and interact with it.  This is very different than thinking that those are features that users want.  

I’m sure there’s some overlap, because like you said, if users don’t like the features, then they may not use it so all (lookin at you G+). But that overlap is incidental, it’s not by design.

Your original question was asking about features that users want and don’t want.  My answer is that what users want is irrelevant.  Social media only do things that their customers (advertisers) and investors want.