Title: What is up with the feminist mods here censoring stuff they don’t like? Isn’t this a free speech sub??

Post:
Here is my original thread that was deleted after 10 minutes -

https://www.reddit.com/r/FreeSpeech/comments/xeehdw/feminism_is_one_of_the_biggest_threats_to_free/

**Here is the content, 150% relevant to free speech. They just deleted it because they didn’t like it. Is anywhere on Reddit safe from censorship???**




Feminism is one of the biggest threats to free speech facing modern society, and sadly our increasingly cucked, gynocentric and misandrist culture is enabling it

Make no mistake, feminism is the driving force behind all of the current woke bullshit and cancel culture we are seeing. I’m not talking about grass roots, 1960s feminism. Feminism hasn’t been about equality for quite some time now. 4th wave feminism and all of its constituents are Marxist movements aimed at destabilizing and dividing the population in order to distract them from the corruption being perpetrated by the same establishment crooks pulling the strings on both sides. The difference is the right still supports traditional rights that protect our civil liberties, specifically free speech. The inability to discuss or publicly joke about literally anything has gotten so out of hand that a multitude of celebrities and public figures have completely withdrawn from the public eye.

The sad reality is, the nature of gender dynamics and a mostly pussy whipped male population gives feminism enormous leverage over an already misandrist society. This enables their self righteous dogma to run free, as evidenced in the abundance of overly inclusive ads, movies and TV shows and black washing of everything, the vilification of white men, replacing previously male roles with women and the general emasculation of men in the mainstream media.

If you so much as hint at the idea that any of this is excessive or that something is wrong, you will be strung up from the gallows and publicly shamed, socially executed/cancelled/tarnished by the angry mobs of neon haired psychopaths and their simp underlings.

Top Comments:
I removed this submission because it's exactly the same as many other silly submissions submitted over the last few weeks.

We've had that discussion, let's move on to more sensible topics.

EDIT: actually no I didn't, it was AutoModerator.

My mistake.

https://i.imgur.com/xVa5PnL.png
I don't like "My rant was an exercise of free speech" threads, or people complaining about bans/deletions in general...

Your other post, however, was specifically about free speech.  It was on-topic.

I don't necessarily agree with the details you posted(core concept yes, it just wasn't...optimal), I posted in that that thread detailing some of that, but it was relevant to the sub.

If you got removed for other reasons, that's possibly a different matter than direct censorship.  Not saying it's a legit delete, reddit mods gonna be reddit mods.
I understand where OP is coming from. Probably the biggest thing under attack is men and anti-racism.  It stems into other things too.  Like men being the leader of the household. Women divorce Rates. Single mothers. Suicide rates of men.  Women CEOs. Affirmative Action. Basically anything dealing with white straight males is being brought down and deemed as evil.  White males are left feeling guilty and hopeless.  I might get banned for saying this but the reason for the failure of the nuclear family in America in feminism.  The original idea of feminism was good. Women’s rights.  The 2nd idea of feminism was equality.  Not bad bad a big problem was we can’t just be equal because we are actually very different.  But when women started to get equality they had to create a new enemy to keep the fight going and that is what we have today.  And when people try to fight back, they are called racist and bigots and tell everyone to disassociate from them or fear of being canceled.  The democrats help empower them to get votes.  Along with minorities and abc people and illegal immigrants.  Basically anyone willing to spread the narrative that white straight males are the problem with the world.
I’m going to use my freedom of speech to say that this is the dumbest thing I’ve read all week.