Title: People who do not support free speech on this sub

Post:
So I have noticed that there are an awful lot of people who support private corporate restrictions on free speech on the sub. I am curious. Why you are here?

Free speech is restricted, in the US anyway, mostly by social media companies. So by supporting social media censorship, you are opposing free speech. I am curious why you participate here if you oppose free speech.

Private corporations, as with governments, are capable of restricting free speech.

Top Comments:
Because they know IRL they can't argue and have no point to make so they hide behind big daddy tech to protect them from mean words that hurt their feels
Freedom of speech isn't really the goal. Freedom of thought is - that is the fundamental core of autonomy. Free Speech is simply a useful principle to defend as a proxy for the more critical freedom of autonomous thought.
They are here to sabotage the sub. As we have seen with Musk, once they fear that THEY will be the ones silenced the whole argument gets dropped like a hot potato.
Have you heard of the concept of positive and negative freedoms? Negative freedoms mean I am allowed to do something without interference from someone else. Positive freedom means that I must be provided with resources to do some particular thing.

So if I say I have the right to healthcare, am I talking about a positive or negative right? Most people who discuss such a right intend to say that they have a positive right to be provided with free healthcare. Contrast the right to bear arms. Most people who believe they have a right to own firearms mean that the government should not pass laws preventing them from owning firearms - not that if they are not provided with free firearms of acceptable quality they are having their rights violated.

If we discuss freedom of speech, a person could reasonably view the concept in either way. It could mean that no one is allowed to stop you from getting your ideas out, or it could mean that you are inherently entitled to have a free and effective means of getting those ideas out provided for you. If you believe that freedom of speech is a positive freedom, then private companies refusing you a platform is a violation of that freedom, just like how hospitals refusing to treat violates their positive right to healthcare. If you believe that freedom of speech is a negative freedom, then private companies refusing service is not a violation, just like how a company not giving me a thing that makes me happy for free does not violate my freedom to pursue happiness.
Lots of people fall for the propaganda that a little censorship will make the world a better place.  And that the censors will stop at a little and not turn into Thought Police.

Never works.

Once the idea is accepted that some censorship is allowed, the people with the power to decide always decide to help their friends and punish their enemies.
This will get downvoted to oblivion, but I'll try and answer your question politely.   


The answer to your question relies heavily on the definition of free-speech being applied. If you define free-speech as   
"I can say whatever I want, whenever I want, wherever I want, and I am free from any form of physical, judicial, or social backlash". Then you are 100% correct - however free speech is limited all of the time, and for good reason.   


A perfect example exists here on Reddit! We have different Subreddits, on these Subreddits moderators of the page get to say "You can only talk about penguins, because that is what this subreddit is for". Now if I go onto this penguins subreddit and begin discussing giraffes and my post gets removed \*technically\* by what I have assumed your definition of free speech to be, the mods have violated your right to free speech. However, nobody in their right mind would say something like "I can't believe I can't talk about giraffes on r/penguins , look at how corporations and governments restrict my freedom of speech" because the moderators (and on a broader scope Reddit) have said explicitly that if you want to use this website you must adhere to these parameters for your free speech.   


Now lets take our application of "restrictions" to other sites like Facebook, Twitter, etc. Those websites are services provided by people that own them. When you sign up for them they have the right to say "Hey, if you want to use my service you have to adhere to X". Technically this is limiting your free speech, but only in that space. You are perfectly free to find another place to speak your mind about the topic that has been restricted. Corporations, and Governments have never said "If you ever talk about giraffes ever we are banning you from r/penguins " THAT would be limiting free speech by my (and many others definitions).   


TL;DR - "Free Speech" is a made-up concept. There are tons of reasons why it would be restricted, and corporations should IMO have the right to limit what is said on the platform they are providing you (often times for free). Where I take issue would be if a service denied you rights to their service if you said something against their TOS on another website.