Title: As libertarians, how should we feel about big tech censorship?

Post:
I know conservatives have been saying for quite awhile that companies such as Google and Facebook have been silencing conservatives, but from a libertarian perspective how do you feel about this?

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ka1cxyAXBXM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ka1cxyAXBXM)

Top Comments:
The bill of rights guarantees you free speech against the government, not companies or individuals. So, they are within their rights to censor whatever they want. 

But, patrons of their services are also free to abandon them for their antics. Vote with your pocket book in this case.
Facebook so in the tank for Democrats that they're allowing the criminal President to spread millions of dollars worth of disinformation without consequence. Conservatives should understand that big tech are the biggest allies for spreading their nativist and white nationalist views and cut their losses.

Also, OP is an r/Conservative bootlicker who routinely defends the President's authoritarian actions.
I agree that these companies have been pushing a left leaning agenda for a while but there are exactly that - private companies - meaning they can do as they please in that regard i just wish they were honest about it. Also if it bothers you so much then go and start a rival company, if so many people leave these sites because of biases that sounds like a great opportunity to win these people over.
A private company, their call.

Be more concerned with how our government works with private businesses for the sake of propaganda and control.  Not only do they buy politicians with cash, now they can buy them with "influence".

We should have some kind of social network in our library system, bound only to the laws of the land and ensuring freedom of speech on a national level to citizens of our state.
Free speech applies to everyone on all platforms no matter what. If it wasn’t so important why did they make the amendment 1st?
Having a laugh at the people melting down over companies censoring stuff for China when they were applauding these companies censoring their political enemies at home. 

These morons really thought they'd be on the right side the censorship hammer every single time.