Title: Big tech and free speech: a response to fee.org's recent article

Post:
It's clear I'm not the only one that gets fee.org's daily newsletter. [Dan Sanchez and Liam McCollum have written about free speech and big tech](https://fee.org/articles/big-tech-and-free-speech-how-both-the-left-and-the-right-are-wrong/). 

Herein I offer a quibble with their article and reject a basis of their conclusion. 

I also address the Terms of Service argument and shouting "fire" in a public space. 

Free speech is a fundamental human right. It stems from the fact that man owns himself. He can choose what he says, who he associates with and owns his property. 

The article, correctly, points out, in quoting Rothbard, that free speech essentially is subject to the permission of someone else when on their property. 

The question becomes on what is private property. 

In my opinion, the article makes a gross mistake in saying that private property, in the context of the internet and big tech, is merely servers. Whoever owns the servers can say what is said on the internet sites that are hosted on said servers. And, therefore, as asserted by the article, censorship of free speech is acceptable through these property rights. 

It draws from an example of a theater being analogous to the internet. 

I find this to be a gross oversimplification of the internet. The internet is far more than just servers. It is a global communication system of complex apparatus that includes both public and private property (as an ancap I would prefer it to be completely private and owned by many different businesses, but we're not there, yet). 

It also necessarily includes the private device each individual uses to access it. I'm typing this on my phone between sets at the gym but could just as easily be using my laptop at home. 

Remove just one of these devices/apparatuses and the internet ceases to exist. 

Remove one of these things and the entire business model of big tech ceases to exist. Without my private property, my device, to access social media their data harvesting advertising machine ceases to exist. Just as would happen if you took away the other elements of the global telecommunications network (including underwater cables or satellites that transmit data around the world - some, or all, is paid for through my stolen income ie taxes). 

Therefore, to boil this down to the private property rights of servers to deny a person's right to free speech is erroneous and incorrect. Big tech has no property rights on the internet. To exist, they need my device, the telegraph poles going down my street, the public energy utilities near my city, the private phone company I contract with to access the internet, as well as the servers that host my data. 

It doesn't matter what is in their Terms of Service. Human rights are inalienable. They are fundamental to every man just as are all his phycial faculties. As such, no man can contract away his human rights. 

For these reasons, I submit that big tech cannot censor our free speech. To do so is a violation of the NAP. It doesn't matter what you say. I will defend the right of every man to say what he wants. Even if I disagree with it. Even commies. 

Final note addressing shouting "fire" in a crowded place.
The article correctly states that in a theater someone that shouts "fire" and disrupts proceedings can be removed as each ticket holder as a right to uninterrupted proceedings. 

However, usually, this justification for the limit on free speech is on the basis that shouting "fire" in a public space will lead to mass panic and possible injury. 

I reject this premise on the simple basis that after 20 years of work where there's been at least 20 fire drills or false alarms never have I seen people panic. Usually it's just a roll of the eyes and wait to be told to leave whilst carrying on with work. Nobody cares. Nobody panics. Thus, this is no justification to limit free speech.

Top Comments:
When discuassing free speech on the internet I find that the litmus test for pro censorship stance is the use of the euphemism "moderation". Granted, some people use it without serious thought, especially if they are used to it from forums or message boards where that's the title of the administrators, like Reddit.  
But experienced debaters that discuss free speech and censorship know very well why they use this euphemism, and they always do it because they feel uneasy to admit their support for censorship.  
That's why I knew from the sixth sentence in this article that the authors are pro censorship.  


As for fire in theatre, unfortunately there are famous examples in the past of lethal stampedes caused by mass hysteria from false fire alarm. The problem with Rothbard's argument is that virtually no one believes in total property rights. No on thinks that you can murder or rape someone on your property. No one thinks that if the theatre owner disrupts the fire alarm when there is a real fire then he shouldn't be in prison.  


Important distinction in regard to the theatre fire scenario is the acceptance by most free speech absolutists that there can be "content neutral restrictions on time, place and manner" that do not infringe on free speech. So forbidding all shouting in theatre is compatible with free speech. The chance that other ways of delivering the content of the shout ("fire") to the crowd, for example, texting or whispering or leaving notes, would create a lethal stampede seems very low to me. So that is one way to solve this problem, and that is a solution that could be accepted by both libertarians and non libertarians.  


While government threats to Big Tech explain some of their censorhip, it by no means explains it all and there are many examples that are easy to claim has nothing to do with government pressure. There are also examples where government pressued tech companies to expand free speech and not restrict it.