Title: Haven't seen this posted in a while - Frank Zappa on CNN Crossfire in 1986 debating on the topic of censorship.

Post:


Top Comments:
Made me appreciate Frank Zappa than I thought I could. I was really blown away by how frothing at the mouth that John Laughton guy got about the issue. While he was busy taking personal shots Zappa argued the issue and really came out ahead.
Two thoughts: 

1 - I don't listen to much Frank Zappa and I can positively say that I am shocked by how smart he sounds. He doesn't get wrapped up in hypothetical and emotion like his opponent and stays consistent throughout. I am very impressed.

2 - John Laughtin = Elsworth Toohey
I don't think Frank Zappa, Dee Snider, John Denver, and others in the music industry get enough credit for defending the freedom of speech.  I was too young to remember it, but I'm so thankful that they did what they did.  I see videos of them defending it against politicians, religious leaders, and parents who were very supportive of censorship at the time (and still are today).  It's scary to think what it would be like if they had lost this argument.  Certainly a lot of censorship does go on and this country has lost freedoms over the years, but I can't imagine America banning music, or books, or maybe even locking people up for saying stuff on the internet.  It wasn't around back then, so who knows what the internet would have even looked like if it wasn't for them.  I think it's important to realize that this isn't a battle that is won.  We need new people out there defending these freedoms as long as the self-righteous have the goals of destroying them.  

I also wish more shows had a theme song that sounded like it was from "Escape from New York" :)
There's a long interview with Gail Zappa (Frank's widow) out there with Alex Jones if anyone's interested.  I don't remember what they talked about.  If you can't find it I'd be willing to upload
Zappa is undeniably a genius. Look at some of his other interviews.

Then there's always stuff like this: [Peaches En Regalia](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=grmeznspMIc) ([won a Grammy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peaches_en_Regalia) actually)