Title: Actual science showing why the democrat thesis that social media censorship prevents radicalization is completely backward

Post:
[https://www.academia.edu/68693015/Is\_radicalization\_reinforced\_by\_social\_media\_censorship](https://www.academia.edu/68693015/Is_radicalization_reinforced_by_social_media_censorship)

"The results of our agent-based model and associated simulation experiments suggest that centralized censorship mechanisms can exacerbate radicalization in online social networks.Banning users for holding (or expressing) a radical belief can motivate such individuals to seek others with similar beliefs which can, in turn, lead to the creation of new, relatively isolated,online communities of substantial size. Moreover, our results suggest that members of the radicalized community may become more certain in their beliefs because they encounter less dissent, even though they have similar degrees of social support. These findings suggest that radicalized views of online communities are reinforced far more than they would be if users were allowed to curate or select, for themselves, who they want to be in their social network. "

From the conclusion. So until I see some science supporting the dem thesis on deplatforming, I am just going to assume you guys actually want more radicalization, or that you don't believe in science.

We need to reclaim our public spaces and turn them into a forum for debate to deradicalize people.

This is a matter of public safety. We can do this through legislation.

[H.R.7613 - 117th Congress (2021-2022): 21st Century FREE Speech Act | Congress.gov | Library of Congress](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/7613)

Like this. If you agree, let your representatives know.

Top Comments:
This is just some model not empirical data? If so I’m not convinced.

Secondly it assumed that social media platforms ban people/topic to stop terrorism. This isn’t true. Social media platforms ban people/topic because its bad for their business. 

Also idk why this is a “democrat thesis” either.
Lol imagine posting this absolute hot garbage in an actual sub called Free Speech. 

This is like phrenologists taking the mic at an abolitionist conference in the 1800s and bringing out charts showing why freedom is bad due to MuH ScIeNCe.
Anything based on simulation is automatically suspect, so I'm not just going to accept this to affirm a belief I already have.
In the US context its a democrat thesis.

It is true that its not perfect, I have collated some studies that support my view.

I would greatly appreciate some scientific sources that support the thesis that deplatforming and social media censorship is deradicalizing.

I found a more empirical better study today, will post it tomorrow. Thanks for your criticism.

\-addendum

I am regrettably uninformed on every other countries political context for this issue.

Not even Canada, which is the non us country which I am best informed on politically, do I know enough about to make informed commentary on the political context of this issue.
Care to make a substantial and relevant contribution?

Computer modeling is used for many things. 

It is a better source than I have ever seen for the opposing argument.

Which is to say none. I have never ever seen anyone make a sourced argument for the opposing argument. Which means my argument is supported, and the opposing one is unsupported. I posted 2 studies today, with more to come.
That is fair, models are only true as they have predictive validity, this is not empirical.

I do have an empirical study, I will post it tommorow.
Buddy. Freedom of speech is a principle and value, a philosophical concept that has been established as one of the natural laws of mankind by discourse spanning centuries, across many different cultures. The same goes for many of our underlying values, like slavery being bad, freedom of movement and religion being paramount, etc. We did not land upon these values based on fucking empiricism or RCT’s. Science cannot answer these questions for us, nor are its processes designed to. For example, a racist can easily bring up *current* IQ charts and peer reviewed studies to establish an ethnostate, and he can legitimately claim he’s backed by science. That wouldn’t make it right. Relying on science to answer the questions of how we should live, and build our societies, is worshipping a false god. It’s like the famous Adams answer to life, “42.” It’s a nonsensical exercise, and holds no meaningful answer for us as a species.
So this study to be clear is to support the thesis that we need more free speech online. Reason being that more free speech will reduce political radicalization.

The reason I posted it is to show that the democrat position on censorship is not only morally wrong, but that it is counterproductive.

Seems that your point is that regardless of science or radicalization, we should have free speech. I would agree. Although, radicalization is not desirable overall.

So, yea, I am building a thesis supported by science to convince morally bankrupt democrats that their primary pro censorship argument is actually not only false, but opposite the truth. I see so many people justify censorship by claiming it reduces radicalization, and this is a lie.

So, yea. Not arguing for censorship. Building a scientifically supported case for free speech being desirable, then everytime I or anyone familiar with the literature sees a fascist democrat make that argument, we can shoot them down, tell them they don't believe in science, tell them they are increasing radicalization.

Thats my intent.
Then I commend your intent. I misjudged and misread your intent from your initial post, and for that I apologize if I came across as flippant and crass. 

I do believe though that no amount of science or data will convince those on the other side, as they’re also armed with THEIR studies and data (and we all know how “rigorous” those are). I still believe that science will not be able to solve this for us. I commend you for trying, though.
No you're good. I could have worded the title more clearly.

I have not seen them present even one study, strangely.

You are absolutely right that it is deontologically immoral to suppress free speech and we shouldn't even be having this debate, we already had it in 1776.