Title: How to have a good Social Media experience/Not feel like shit 

Post:
While most of social media is undoubtedly a hellhole, people keep forgetting the original purpose for the Worldwide Web, a simple video watching, shiposting, and discussion meeting world. I feel like I should shine a positive light and steps on how not have a shitty time here. This may be a bit controversial, but that's not the purpose of this, it's intended for at least good advice

Step 1: Block off all the negative things lurking here. Ever see a bunch of shitty news or petty drama/arguments or people complaining/R34? Just block them, what do you gain from that? What does that do to benefit you? Nothing, all they do is make you feel shitty and sad, so just block it, it wants to make you feel miserable. Why would want to have a miserable time here? Fill your feed up with memes, wholesome messages, wholesome or bad ass images, you need more positivity. The same can apply for YouTube, watch the videos that you love and dont get sucked into the toxic hate and brain rot like everyone else has. Sure, the company has made some questionable decisions, but it's all in the content that matters. If you see a horrible channel (Ex: Brains Rot Commentary Channels, or things that make you give up on the internet), just block it, it wants you to give up and make you feel miserable. Get The Algorithm to recommend stuff you love, Cat Vidoes, gaming channels like Markiplier or Pewdiepie, music channels like DAGames or JT Music, or skit/shitpost channels like Smosh and Sr Pelo. Simply to put it, delete most of social media and watch the positive things on YouTube 

Step 2: Don't let others effect your opinions and life. I've dealt with this insecurity for several months, whether I question my likings and it's OK to like what love, but I now know those questions are stupid. It's not a crime to love what you love, and if people get offended, harass you, or make fun of you for it, just ignore them, all they want is a reaction and attention and have never had fun in their life. As I said, delete most of social media (more specifically Twitter), for it tries to manipulate your mindset and blow your self esteem. Also, try to find posts that remind you that you're not the only one who has the same opinion as you and save them. You're not the only one in this world, there will always be people out there that are like you, so just stick with that group, alright?

Step 3: Take a break for at least a good week or more. If you feel like the addiction is getting too much, just take a break for at least a good week, it's healthy to get off of it for a while and just watch normal TV, Draw, Read, or Play Video Games. I do that a lot sometimes, while I still do watch YouTube videos, I draw and play the Nintendo Switch as well.

Thank you for coming to my TedTalk

Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods. Have more questions? [Join our community Discord!](https://discord.gg/looking-for-marketing-discussion-811236647760298024).


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
TLDR; but smash or throw your phone away is good therapy. go offline disconnect find real connections. there is no such thing as a quick fix like the dopamine hits from every ding. it takes work that people don't want to do. if they spend half the time learning who they are than the time it takes pretending who they aren't, they might actually accomplish something useful.
buenos consejos, para mi la mejor desintoxacion onalin: es sentirme conmigo mismo, leer un buen libro fisico, asociarme con persinas fisicas si son de edad mas que el mio es mejor.

Si uso internet para blogs y algunos videos en youtube que me hagan mejor o para nuevas habilidades.
Anything to shine some positivity, don't bother with it, just watch some cat or gaming videos or look at shiposts