Title: What is Tik Tok's policy for marijuana related content?

Post:
I have an idea for a funny video on Tik Tok, and in the video I talk about weed but I don't actually show it or anything like that. I'm just wondering if it would be against the rules to talk about weed on Tik Tok as long as I don't actually show it or use it.

Top Comments:
I'm finding this out now after I posted some cultivation techniques, they removed it.. I thought since I lived in a state where it's legal it wouldn't be an issue but I guess it is
Any tips to not get violations? I see people like ghosting they're smoke without showing the actual joint or pen, but when I do the same I get deleted.
How is that you can't post cannabis products but females can sexualize themselves on there and not get violated I hate Tic Tok because of this I was asked to join because I create content and i posted 3 videos and got violated I was done after that!..
I don't know their official policy but I don't think videos talking about the subject get taken down. Anything showing the actual act of smoking or ingesting substances is forbidden, but talking/joking about it should be completely fine.

\-Source: addicted to Tik Tok 2+ years
Promoting any kind of firearms, drugs, alcohol and sexual activity on the app can end up with Tiktok banning your account. Tobacco is one of those substances and consumption of tobacco is against the guidelines as well as Weed.  


Hope this helps those who had questions.   


\-Source : TikTok Content Creator
I accidentally got caught smoking on my live last night got a 2 hour violation on my live and now I assumed I’m shadow banned as well? But I’m not sure as I haven’t seen the numbers drop yet so yeah I just would not do it at all anywhere near a live or a video
This happened to me as well. Woke up to a massive amount of violations for thr bongs I make. Which is horseshit because I lost like 2,000 followers. My posts were getting like a 100,000 views on them and then it was just gone