Title: Dealing with haters vs. giving up on my social media project - How do you cope with the aggression you receive on your accounts?

Post:
Hi Redditors, forgive my English, it's not my first language. I also am never able to be succint, so forgive me for this too! I'd love some suggestions or maybe just some empathy on the topic of trolls and aggressive commenters on social media and especially on Instagram, where it seems to me they're getting more and more, probably moving away from Facebook. Both for better managing how it influences my mental health, both because I have a project for an Instagram account that I would love to start and I think would be really nice and engaging, but the thought of likely haters invasion is blocking me. I don't want to let them win making me give up on something that could be really good for me, but I also don't want to ruin my mental health.

I know that the way to deal with trolls is just ignoring them and not engaging, and I try to do that as much as possible in the comment section of the accounts I follow, but I still face two big issues:

1. Just reading them often ruins my day. I'm quite sensitive in general, like I'm one of those people who during a day often thinks of the many wrong things in the world and I feel a general background sadness all the time. Just seeing every day the amount of unresolved aggressive people who enjoy taking down a stranger who is just trying to make interesting and fun comment is disheartening to me.

2. Sometimes the aggressive comment contains wrong information and in those cases I often fall in the trap of replying. 

Here's an example of just one hour ago, which is what led me to write this post: the algorithm made the video of a recipe pop up in my home. A very simple recipe for an easy autumnal dessert made by a young girl. Nothing more. There were hundreds, and I'm not exaggerating, hundreds of hateful comments about her voice, how the recipe was shit, how they had already seen it 1.000 times, how just having a recipes account makes you a loser, etc.   
One commenter had to hate on the fact that she used a wrong word for a fruit used in the recipe, because in Italian (my language and the language of the video) it is actually kept with the same suffix as the original language (Japanese). He left a very annoying, patronizing and pedantic comment about the fact she used the wrong word. And the author replied "I didn't know it". Now this is a very, very common fruit in Italy and it's always called the way the author of the post called it. Both versions can be valid as the Etymology is still the Japanese name, but really the Italianized one is the most common and it's also found on any vocabulary. So I made the mistake, I replied to him. I never use an aggressive or emotional tone with haters, I just stated both versions are actually correct and she didn't make a mistake.  
 This guy (about 20 years younger than me from the picture) replied to me with a 20 lines comment that included insults like the wonderful, trending "retarded", telling me he went to the vocabulary and I don't know how to read, that I was showing my ignorance being pedantic (?) etc. And again second mistake, I replied again to him telling him the fact the common Italian version is in the most reliable dictionaries described as a "popular, common variant" of the other one, it means both are correct, and that I didn't understand what triggered such an aggressive reply from him. Now I see the notification that he replied again and I'm not even opening it. This is something I often do in these cases, when I really feel someone should ad an input with some objective source; I reply and then ignore the notifications. 

Episodes like this one really make me feel bad. I've been trying to put what is hurting me in focus, because I'm now almost 40 years old, I'm quite confidente and ok with who I am, I have a nice life, a nice job, a lovely partner, healthy hobbies. Why does an exchange with a 18yo who calls me a retarded and tells me I don't know how to read hurt me so much? 

The answer I found is that I feel bad at the idea these people exist in the real world, and they have sisters, partners, colleagues, and will have children, and for how much I know that it's easy to give the worst on social media, I also think someone like this has serious issues of displaced anger that can't just disappear in his real life dynamics.

Another thing I know of myself is that facing a wall when I'm talking about something I know about, and I even have objective sources to prove it, is a huge trigger for me. I am super open to critiques, I love a constructive debate and I'm fascinated on how a perspective can change when you put in another person's shoes. I'm not one of those people who needs to be right and will clutch at straws if the alternative is saying "I was wrong". But when I know the other person is in the wrong with a bold statement and they can't even admit it with a reliable, objective source in front of them, this is something that makes me really frustrated and I'd say even angry.

And for sure I feel so much empathy for the author of this little recipe or whatever it can be who has to receive hundreds of insults from frustrated strangers. Which brings me to my main issue. I don't want to give up on social media entirely because I follow accounts that bring me joy, as many positive comments do too, but I also have this project in mind that would involve building an Instagram and TikTok account with, hopefully, a lot of following in my country. It would be about a hobby I'm really passionate about and I studied and practiced for year, also moving abroad to learn from the best. In Italy there's no one who has an account on this topic that is fresh and young and light. The people who do it are usually 50-60 yo men who are super technical. I did some classes to some of my friends and they all loved them and told me I'm really fun and clear when I explain things. I also have a secret weapon which would be my super smart and super sweet shepherd dog puppy which I would include in tutorials, videos, and stuff. I talked to some friends and one who works in social media and they all told me it would be such a great idea and it would probably become "a thing" if I do it right, which made me really excited. I would love to plan the content and hopefully make this hobby more approachable for younger people and especially for girls, seeing a young woman who does it when it's mostly a man dominated field. It would be really good for my mental health and personal growth.

As you can guess, all this excitement and planning immediately dies as soon as I see these other influencers' posts and all the nonsensical hate they receive on a daily basis. And my thought becomes the opposite - it would not be good for my mental health at all. If I am so hurt and sometimes triggered by the comments directed to another person, how can I become strong enough to receive them myself, on my persona, on my voice, on my art? How can I refrain from feeling triggered if a 60yo guy arrives and tells me I'm wrong and stupid and I said a bunch of bullshit when he's talking about something I've studied and researched for years and put in a video I spent hours to prepare content for so that it was nice and engaging and useful for people?

Judging from my Instagram and Reddit bubble, I also have to say it feels like in Italy the trolling issue is even more severe. The amount of haters, the nature of their comments, the words chosen, the aggression on Italian IG posts or Reddit threads is unimaginable, and misogynysm is a whole other level here.

Do you think there is a way to get around all this in a healthy way? If there is someone who has a big following and their good amount of haters - is it something you may get used to in time and that becomes less hurtful after a while? And also, do you think the way these people affect my mood is concerning, or is it human after all?

Thank you all for any advice or even just for reading 

Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
There's a whole lot here and I didn't read it all but it sounds like posting content online isn't a good idea for you. You're not going to change people and the internet is full of bots and trolls. Also, if you're going to put something out into the world in order to get attention or try to make money, people are allowed to make whatever stupid comments they want. This is all assuming that your content isn't stolen, boring, or stale - in that case the critics are correct.
People don't seem to have suggestions because we are all bothered more than we 'feel like we should be' by online negativity. There's not much to say other than 'get over it' or 'ignore it' and obviously that's not a realistic option. 

I hope you do decide to follow your passion, do your project, and that it's a huge success. there will be negative people and assholes everywhere, i hope they don't ruin things for you. 

I sympathize on the misogyny. I can't relate to that as neither Italian nor a woman so I can truly only imagine how awful that part is.
Honestly, I think the healthiest thing you can do right now is take a break from social media, maybe even the internet entirely. The haters are always going to be out there, and if they're making you this stressed about every single post you make then nothing good will come of continuing. 

Spend some time with yourself, spend some time with supportive irl friends, and recenter on the things you enjoy in life. Then once you're in a better mindset, consider what posting on social media means to you. Is there some aspect of it that brings you joy, that makes you feel like you're achieving something worthwhile? Or are you just getting sucked in by what everyone else is doing? 

Only you can decide if it's worth it to keep posting, or if it's time to call it quits for good, but a little distance will help you make an informed decision instead of reacting to your current emotions.

Good luck.
Thanks a lot! I think I already spend a lot of time with IRL friends, my partner, family, my dog, and have a lot of healthy off-screen hobbies. But just one day seeing all that anger unsettles me. For now, I don't receive any anger in my own posts, because I only have a couple accounts with a few hundreds followers. I was referring to aggressive comments on other people's post. I'm sure the project I have in mind would bring me a lot of positive things because teaching and storytelling are two things I love and I would bring light and positive content. But it would hopefully become a bigger thing than my current personal accounts and I guess I have to try and see if the probable hating wave is balanced by the positive aspects.

Thanks a lot for your reply!
Yes, probably so. But I wonder how other people can be unaffected by seeing all that anger and pleasure so many people get from bringing other people down?