Title: Why are social media companies under fire for spreading misinformation but companies it’s like Spotify or Fox News not under the same scrutiny by the left?

Post:
Spotify produces the Joe Rogan Experience podcast (biggest podcast in US) where Joe Rogan is seen spreading misinformation on a weekly basis. Why hasn’t the media gone after them? Just curious to get peoples opinions.

Top Comments:
[Please keep in mind that all posts need to be of professional discussion](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/comments/ft6ghx/all_new_posts_need_a_flair_going_forward/). This isn't a help desk. [If this post doesn't follow the rules report it to the mods](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/).


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Good point but i think its because of the personal interaction.  Malicious coercion disguised as harmless fun.  When you watch fox news you kinda know what your getting but ig will manipulate you to a point that it will start to change your neural pathways
Thank you all appreciate the perspective, I can see the points being made above and I do think they are valid points. I just was thinking tonight about Spotify after seeing the Joe Rogan and Dr.Sanjay Gupta episode being in the news and how much controversy that had.
My personal theory is that there's a lot of resentment in the journalistic world against Facebook, due to the way they've been treated during the last decade. FB sucked all the traffic away from newspapers, then became the main source of traffic for them. FB changes its algorithm, a newspaper loses half of its traffic. FB announces a "pivot to video", and newspapers have to invest millions in producing video content.

So what we are seeing now is a vendetta from the journalists against the company that has been holding their leashes during the last few years.
Spotify gives people music. Not controversial, even with the Joe Rogan podcast. Fox News is a broadcast channel, which is a dying medium. It’s worse than Spotify, but compared to the social platforms, not horrible.

There are a few key reasons why social networks are under fire. They amplify hate and controversial ideas, their use is demonstrated to make people feel bad to the point of depression and suicide, and they are exploited by foreign powers to sow divide in the US.

Amplify Hate—-
This is part of the business model. If something you see on social gets you angry, you are more likely to interact. When you interact you stay on the app longer, which creates more opportunities to be served ads, which are social platforms’ primary revenue driver. 

Local news does this too, which is why if you watch local news, it may seem like the sky is falling, crime is up, and people are horrible. All of these perceptions may come when crime is at an all time low in your city. Bad news draw rating and higher ad revenues. What local news doesn’t have, that social media does that amplifies these controversial messages, is data and algorithmic decisioning.

People Feel Bad——
If people aren’t being radicalized in one direction or another with controversial news, there are other issues at play. Teens bully teens on social. Young girls get content that further reinforces eating disorders. People post the best parts of their lives on social, making you feel like your life sucks because you aren’t on all kinds of fun trips, and you didn’t buy expensive thing. No one sees a person’s unhappy times, just the fakey view of a not-real version of others. Social media algorithms deteriorate a person’s viewing behavior into content that, while interesting, is detrimental to their mental health. 

International Threats In Your Hands——
With negative viewpoints, sometimes you don’t know where they come from. In 2016 bad actors took two sides of the same idea, and used content messaging and ads to rally both sides of the issue on social. These weren’t ads advocating for Dodgers or Giants, exciting fans from each team in a baseball fervor. These were social issues, whether racism, the gun debate, school curriculums, whatever. Both sides of these topics were cultivated on social with the goal of creating divisiveness inside the US. It’s easier for external threats to prevail when you and I are fighting over ideas that are coming to a fever pitch. When opposing sides can’t have a civil debate, we threaten ourselves. All of these issues stem from social platforms, their revenue model, fundamental human behavior, and, very importantly, the extreme powers of social algorithms.


Algorithms——
These are the decision making entities that are better than any other technology on earth to keep you hooked into the app. It’s no coincidence that people spend hours a day on social. It’s no coincidence that people exhibit addictive behavior when they can’t check their phones often enough. Bells, dings, and whistles from social media give us dopamine hits make people feel a momentary jolt of pleasure, and they want more of it. Unlike other media, like the local news, these algorithms know exactly what to put in front of each of us to keep us on the platform.

What Does This Add Up To?——
Platforms use the best technology ever created, with the most data ever harvested about you and I individually, to keep us consuming and creating content. Bad news, controversial ideas, or radical viewpoints entice humans, thus the platforms give us what keeps us on their apps. When that content is divisive, harmful, untrue, or created by a bad actor to harm us, bad things happen. People get depressed. They kill themselves. Enemies of our country deliver manufactured hate and divisiveness directly to our most personal screens. This content is in bed with us, at home with us, in our hands, with us on the toilet, and when we take breaks from work. 

Social isn’t all bad, despite what I say here. They do a lot of good. But it seems like we are getting to that relationship with social media where we create safeguards and rules about things that are, and are not appropriate for our society with regard to social media.
They are under fire but it’s not against the law to spread misinformation. Until we make it illegal these guys will keep saying whatever they want to get eyeballs and viewers.