Title: How can I get clients as an esthetician using social media?

Post:
Hi everyone! I posted this on r/esthetics but figured this may be a better place to post 

So… im in the middle of a career change. I started esthetics school about a month and a half ago, and I keep being told I need to use social media to build a client list and make a name for myself in the industry. I totally understand this and agree…. The only problem is I hate social media after being cyberbullied in high school and have a LOT of anxiety when it comes to posting. So much so that I deleted my social media accounts when I was 20… so I can’t advertise my new business account there. I’m only on LinkedIn and in a new area, so I don’t have many connections around here. Because it’s also been years since I’ve posted anything, I have no idea what and/or how to post anything. Can y’all give me some good tips on really anything related to social media? Like what to post, best platforms, editing apps, best hashtags, captions to write, etc

Also need to start asap because I need clients to work on to fulfill all of the requirements so I can graduate.

I truly appreciate any help you can give!!!

Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I'll start by telling you that social media is for you and not  your friends or bullies.

Learn to rise above challenges. You will see how far you'll go.

I'd advise you to pick the platform you feel suits your needs. 

Create a profile and optimize it so that you are discoverable. 

From there, come up with a content strategy and visit chat gpt for content ideas. Use capcut to edit videos and canva to create aesthetically pleasing graphics. 

I totally understand that you are not comfortable with showing your face yet, and it's okay. Show your work✨️

Post more reels or tiktok videos and be consistent. Try 3 posts per week and 3 stories daily. If you are busy, you can schedule them using metricool. 
Interact with other accounts by leaving meaningful comments under their post. 

Good luck! 

I'd be happy to assist you with it, too✨️
Starting from scratch can be tough, but you’ve got this! Consider using Instagram or TikTok, they’re visual platforms perfect for showcasing your skills. Start small with tips on skincare or before-and-after transformations. I felt the same way about social media at first, but once I shared my journey, it became much easier. Focus on your passion for esthetics, and your authenticity will shine through!
Set up a bunch of posts in a collection and order the system the post from it regularly. Everything on Auto pilot and you focus on your business
Robopost.app our software does that. Recently we also have AI generated content
Well tell a story about your brand and if you can get reviews form previous client to help the audience trust you better
Ways to grow your business include social media, website, ads, personal networking among others. 

I have several clients in the esthetician/PMU/tattoo artist niche and social media and ads are generally the areas where we focus on getting traffic and booked appointments. 

If you are unsure of what to post and how to optimize your account, start by looking at other estheticians accounts which have a big following, engagement and activity. Emulate what they’re doing. You will eventually be able to generate traffic and appointments from your socials. 

I offer my clients a website/landing page with automated appointments and that sort of thing but if you are just starting out you can probably look at Jane or square as a payment processor/scheduler if you don’t have a big budget.

I know a thing or two about this niche so if you want to message me you can but it seems like you will need major help with fundamentals and actually getting things started. YouTube is probably your best bet in that case
Thank you for the advice. Regarding ads, websites, and POS systems like Square, it’s not a huge concern as I’m only in school and do not plan on opening my own business. The service cost is paid directly to the school, and we don’t see any of the money. I just need to generate enough leads to fulfill my graduation requirements. Once I graduate in 4 months, this won’t be a huge concern of mine where I’ll need to keep up with a website and social media because I have 6 more years of school (college) before I officially have the medical license I need and can start practicing. But I thank you for the advice… I’ll definitely check out what some of the other estheticians are doing online to generate leads