Title: New York's Governor Calls Out Social Media Companies After Buffalo Shooting | Governor Hochul suggested a new tool that would alert companies when hate speech is being shared online.

Post:


Top Comments:
> alert companies when hate speech is being shared online.

'Alerts' really aren't that effective when they are always on.
Like of course this person was influenced by the media they consumed and participated in. Everyone is. That's a long proven psychological phenomenon, and every authoritarian state knows how important control of the media within their state is to pacifying the populace. When the guy streamed his mass killing on social media, planned it in a Discord group, regurgitated the kind of rhetoric that thrives in communities like 4chan and 8chan, and was explicitly inspired by the Christchurch shooting (that was also livestreamed), of course social media was a major factor here.

  
I don't understand the mental gymnastics required to ignore this. People don't come out of the womb wanting to go on shooting sprees, there's a long and intense radicalization process that brings people to do these things, and that often happens over social media. To ignore this inarguable fact is to ignore reality.

  
I guess acknowledging that opens some difficult questions about what our responsibility as a society is to try and prevent them, and those aren't questions that have easy or simple answers, so it's easier to just ignore it and pretend that these are totally random isolated incidence that occur in a vacuum. It might be 100% incorrect, but it's easy and simple.
I don’t know what they think that will do. We are in a post 9/11 Patriot Act era with the combination of multiple departments making up Homeland Security. We know publicly that the NSA, CIA, FBI and now recently ICE are doing warrantless wire tapping and yet shot like Epstein’s island can be built with infrastructure, landing pad and stocked with child sex slaves and what happened? Nothing. Not a goddamn thing. So now they want us to believe that hate speech is going to be stopped?! LOLOLOLOL!!!
in the old days, forums, groups etc had teams of moderators who policed the forums and deleted nasty posts and removed basdly behaved people... how hard would iut be for this to happen with facebook etc?
Anyone who believes that social media is responsible for a person acting out violently on his hatred, no matter what the source of his or her hatred is, including racial hatred, is a fool. People like this governor being allowed to use the isolated actions of a crazy person to further a political agenda, such as free speech or firearm restrictions, are the lowest of the low, and should be run out of office wearing tar and feathers. Tax paying citizens who fall for this governors words are the problem with todays society.
It’s weird. The internet allows you to connect with hateful people/groups. If you’re unhappy and miserable it’s a scary mix. But that won’t ever go away. Education, mental health programs, is probably where the focus should be. And that 100,000s of American kids rely on school food or they’d go hungry. Sorta alarming.