Title: How can Facebook / Meta Business be so bad?

Post:
So a little background. I work for a company which supplies bathroom & plumbing products. The company overall is severely behind on online advertising and doesn't want to invest in it too heavily. The companies biggest following is on Facebook, and its terrible.

  
We have had our advertising rights permanently restricted (even though we haven't ever advertised) and just recently our page is no longer recommended because we have apparently violalted 'high-level rules around sexual, violent, profane or hateful content.' 

Furthermore, the business suite is horrible to use with so many bugs and just a janky user experience.

  
What do other professionals do as a work around to not use meta products while still keeping a 'foot in the door' of facebook.

Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I had 30+ client pages get the same restrictions last week that it sounds like yours has. 

I’m still working out what the issues are but usually with these big ban waves, a few innocent pages get caught in the crossfire.

In terms of your last question - the answer to that is where else is your target audience? If you can get access to the same audience in a similar context for the same price then that’s the Meta alternative for you 🙂
Your FB account may have been hacked. 

Mine was last year and the only reason I knew about it was because I would see notifications that someone has posted on my page but I couldn't see anything when I would be on my page.

It seems like hackers have a way to make the posts or comments invisible to the account owner. 

It took a while to get ahold of a FB customer service rep but eventually it was fixed. 

FB did recommend I turn off posts and comments which is kinda stupid since that is often what is attractive when having a FB page.
I've noticed that a lot of businesses in my state only utilize FB and don't have an IG page. Which is so weird to me because the only people using FB is our aunties. IG has a totally different vibe than FB. I got rid of it on my phone.
I have been dealing with FB for months now. I feel like no one reads my emails. They all tell me the same sort of copy and paste response, in a way I know that they didn't read my email. It's so frustrating. If anyone know how to get someone to help them from Meta/FB let me know because it's been literal hell.
im now trying to login with my IG account but it says the datas are invalid. Which is false because the same datas allow me to login on the app. Absolute garbage
How did you manage to find a actual human from Facebook to speak too, we have had no luck in finding someone to report the issues we have too. Just automated decisions from reviews.