Title: Facebook has criticised a new German law that would force social media companies to pay up to €50 million (£43 million) if they fail to remove hate speech and false news, saying it will encourage paranoid tech companies to delete legal content in order to avoid the hefty fines.

Post:


Top Comments:
well, yes. it will encourage paranoid tech companies to delete legal content, and the internet will be worse for it. look at the dmca. facebook aren't really content creators, and shifting the responsibility towards them doesn't really help. the "problem" is that anyone can say anything to anyone else, and there's no foolproof way to make sure that only true things are reported. this is the new reality. actually, it's been this way for thousands of years. while i applaud any attempt to suppress bullshit, i don't really think there is a technical solution for this problem that doesn't cause more problems than it solves, when it comes to transparency (knowing if and how content is filtered and/or ranked) and freedom of speech (being able to say something and have it be heard without being unjustly censored).
The issue i see with this is who defines what is classed as fake news and how is the content removed? For example: The Sun news paper denied that the police was responsible for the Hillsborough Disaster and was then found out to be lying. Sure they lied about that but does that affect every news article they ever publish or just this one?

What if its a controversial subject and it's one newspaper breaking a story while it's being refuted by other news companies? They cant both be right and therefore one of them must be wrong, who is labeled "fake news"?

Not to mention the fact that people ill happily be biased towards their new's sources. Main example being that Trump supporters might say InfoWars isnt fake news and say CNN is fake news whereas others will say the opposite. Who is classed as right and labeled fake news there?
I think Facebook's approach to fake news they recently went to is the proper way. When stuff is flagged as FN enough it gets a tag warning potential readers that others tagged it as so. Putting the responsibility on FB to monitor and remove FN or be penalized is an overreach of power. 
When hardcore conservatives rail against the US "turning into Europe" (at least that was a thing I heard a lot when Obama was in office)...this is the type of thing they are talking about. 

No one wants their government to start censoring everything they say... Even if they are saying something stupid. 
Other problem is is what defines hate speech. Sure you can cite obvious examples but it's not those that concern people it's the ones in the gray area. If I say I hate a certain restaurant chain will a lawyer from said chain be at city hall calling it hate speech tomorrow because it shines their business in a negative light? It may seem stupid but I can see this happening. 