Title: Racism in Social Media Comments: Why Are We Still Normalizing This?

Post:

It’s 2024, yet scrolling through social media often feels like stepping back in time with the amount of casual racism still lurking in comment sections. From "jokes" to outright hateful remarks, this behavior is too often dismissed or normalized.

I am okay with it as with our homies. But thinking about it "Why on general Comments" - it influences a lot a brains

Why is this still a thing? Shouldn't we, as a global community, be striving for kindness and mutual respect? How do we stop this cycle?

The impact of normalizing racism in online spaces.

How individuals can help change the narrative.

Whether platforms are doing enough to tackle hate speech.


The world is the same for all of us. Be kind. Be loving. Let’s talk about ways to make the internet a better place.

What are your thoughts?



Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Yeah, social media makes for a great dump site for negativity, especially because there are no consequences.
People think they can't be found because they don't go by their real name. Ding-la-lings.
Even I've had moments getting caught up in a trolls goading. The dopamine hit I get (adhd) from arguing is verying relaxing and makes me happy. I have to be careful not to get caught up in the whole troll industry.
Anyway I don't think people realize how much of an effect media (all types) has on their psychology. We are being bombarded by negative messaging on all sides. Most of it is what we choose to expose ourselves to, but a lot of it is also curated content. The psychology of media and its impact on society has become big business. We are a resource of free data (guinea pigs) our reactions, word usage, likes, dislikes, preferences, etc. 
Its now our habit to check our phones first thing in the morning, when it used to be make coffee or go bathroom. 
People are all susceptible to influence just at different levels... and they come with triggers.
Dealing with racism in social media comments is crucial. We need more accountability from platforms and us, as users, to report and call out this behavior to foster a more inclusive online environment.
It may depend on what you consider racism.  If someone says- “People of group X commit the most crimes.”  Is that racism?  Or a fact?
We make the internet a better place by being able to differentiate between your own feeling and the intention of other people.

If the only thing you care about is how you percieved other people comments and how it affects your feeling rather than the intention and context of other people, then you are just trying to make the world revolve around your worldview and people are tired of that shit.

People that view everything through the optic of racism and sexism will see everything as racist and sexist.
I read only the heading of this post. If the country elected a racist that has embolden all the other racist, why is this a questions? America is reverting to what it once was.
Why do ppl still get offended when it's not about them? why do ppl Bring up racism still ? Have you ever been online gaming?  It's literally for laughs I've had friends that would and we would joke with each other about each other's race and ppl got offended that we did it so some ppl might be doing it for laughs and dark humor type shi, and not realizing or caring what others might think about the comments they. say some will laugh. You're ok with joking with the homies but get mad about it online seems kinda dumb af to me you're ok with joking about it in private but wanna get offended in public. You wanna say some shi bout normalized online but seems like in private it's already normalized in your mind before a community comes together to make something happen and work the ppl within the group gotta work on itself I'm all for kindness and shi but if we yell out one Thing that offends us in public but go do it that same thing in private wtf was the whole point in the first place
I don’t think we’re normalizing it. This is just normal human behavior.

Prejudice against people of certain demographics is something that many human beings do.  It’s impossible to stop. No matter which way you turn, somebody will have a reason to hate on somebody for something. As well as copying things that people do as well.

It sucks to realize it, but this is just like thinking that bullying will go away or sexual assault will go away. That’s just not a realistic point of view. Doesn’t matter how much you punish people, you’re always going to have those antisocial type people out there who are going to find spaces where they can act on their desires and do so.

I am a discord moderator for a few different servers and we frequently get trolls coming in spamming all sorts of weird content and then then they just say where is the rule saying that I can’t do this.  

People being racist or prejudice is just one of those weird quirks of human behavior, there’s no way to prevent it.