Title: Reddit admits more moderator protests could hurt its business | Losing third-party tools "could harm our moderators’ ability to review content..."

Post:


Top Comments:
**Alternatively -** *Reddit admits much of their value is provided by the community and their goodwill that they've managed to exploit for free, as well as selling the user content to AI compaines, and that by going public and opening the books, it could make users feel jaded and used and they might stop providing that value for free.*
Important to remember that, for public transparency, Reddit has to list *all* the factors it thinks could affect its business. If they didn’t mention this fact, it could be considered fraud.

This isn’t them saying it’s a significant enough risk that they regret any of the actions they’ve taken, just that it’s a risk of their business.
Some of the points from the article:

>Reddit’s filing also said that negative publicity and moderators disrupting the normal operation of subreddits could hurt user growth and engagement goals. The company highlighted financial incentives associated with having good relationships with volunteer moderators, noting that if enough mods decided to disrupt Reddit (like they did when they led protests last year), “results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could be adversely affected.” Reddit infamously forcibly removed moderators from their posts during the protests, saying they broke Reddit rules by refusing to reopen the subreddits they moderated.
>
>“As communities grow, it can become more and more challenging for communities to find qualified people willing to act as moderators,” the filing says.
>
>Much of the momentum for last year's protests came from users, including long-time Redditors, mods, and people with accessibility needs, feeling that third-party apps were necessary to enjoyably and properly access and/or moderate Reddit. Reddit's own technology has disappointed users in the past (leading some to cling to Old Reddit, which uses an older interface, for example). In its SEC filing, Reddit pointed to the value of third-party "tools" despite its API pricing killing off many of the most popular examples.
>
>...
>
>The filing reveals that over the next three years, Reddit plans to make $203 million in revenue from AI data licensing.
>
>It’s no secret, though, that today’s generative AI tools can have mixed—if not alarmingly inappropriate—results. Reddit’s AI licensing deals could become less valuable if LLMs can't properly decipher and sort through the abyss of jokes, memes, satire, sarcasm, and parody that Reddit is known for.

It's amazing that despite the acknowledged importance of moderators to the success of the platform, and their reliance on third party tools to effectively do that work, that they still neither provide quality tools for mods to work effectively nor do they compensate the mods. If I were investing in this company, I'd be glad to see that the company has an understanding of what has worked well thus far, but I'd be concerned that the company has no seeming interest in improving the situation.
"our free slaves ... I mean moderators could hurt our growth, we fucked over 3rd party devs but ... losing 3rd party tools cause of those dirty poors not being able to pay our exorbitant fee, that could hurt our growth"

&#x200B;

Spez, lay off the meth dude.
“Redditors have difficulty installing, updating, or otherwise accessing our products on mobile devices or prefer to utilize third party.”

No shit Reddit. You killed majority of the third party apps that made your site bearable to use. I don’t even use your mobile app because I don’t like big ads shoved in my face while browsing and the user experience is poor compared to Apollo. Now I just use OpenRed which still is terrible compared to Apollo but at least I don’t have to use the terrible official app.
Too bad there's no money to help with stuff like that. It's not like Reddit paid its  CEO $180,000,000 last year. Have some sympathy for this small company that can't even afford to pay its moderators.