Title: LinkedIn Posts Go Nowhere. Not Even to the Moderation Queue. Ultra-SWAMed by LinkedIn?

Post:
I post to various LinkedIn groups a lot. 

Before I start - I post ONLY relevant content, add a good description of the info, if I provide a link and ask questions (it's always interesting what people have to say about my content). I always comment on other peoples' posts. I'm a top contributor to at least 25%-40% of my groups. 

With the recent LinkedIn SWAM update, which sends your posts to auto moderation after just ONE flag/report from other users - I started getting notifications when I post: your posts are being moderated...bla-bla-bla...and the link to the SWAM policy. I understand that there will always be assholes, who will just flag your content, like it's the downvote button on reddit. So I was fine with that. 

Today I tried to post to a couple of groups and...nothing happened. The post didn't appear on the home page of the group. The post didn't go to the moderation queue (the SWAM notification didn't pop up). 

It just went nowhere. This happened in multiple groups and at this point I gave up. 

Do you know that this is? 

Is this the final SWAM form - it just blocks everything you post? 

Interestingly enough - my comments go through on all of those groups.

Top Comments:
Your posts are probably still going to moderation - LinkedIn is notorious for having weird things happen on their site. My guess is that it's going to the queue and you're not seeing the notification. Or, the groups you're posting in are moderated for everyone, which is why you might be allowed to comment. 

There have been updates recently about how SWAM is no longer indefinite. Here is an article about the recent SWAM update: http://blog.oktopost.com/another-important-linkedin-swam-update

Hope you are able to figure it out. Keep us posted!
I've experienced similar problems. I had someone constantly marking all of my group contributions as spam, despite them being relevant and well-received by the group. 

On two occasions I've contacted LinkedIn, both times they sent me standardized template responses that didn't really answer my concerns. Basically the only way around SWAM is to be added as an approved contributor to the group by a group administrator. 

SWAM is a complete failure. As a top contributor in many groups it makes no sense that my posts are going through moderation, especially in groups where the administrators never check the mod queue. 

Is spam really that much of a problem in LinkedIn groups? It doesn't seem so in the ones I'm a member of. Facebook groups on the other hand...
hey, thanks a lot...that was my first thought. I'll try to check tomorrow, fingers crossed:) 

Thanks for sharing the info!
yes, messaging admins for every post to get checked is frustrating. They don't check the groups and yes - you're totally right: seems like SWAM IS a failure:(