Title: New research shows that massive spending on toxic content moderation fails to address polarization—social media companies should instead design better platforms that give users more control and choice. 

Post:


Top Comments:
Maybe the bigger problem is the algorithms feeding people more of the same crap they already see. Instead of pouring money into moderation, why not stop designing platforms that trap us in echo chambers?
It offers zero moderation. It's completely polarizing and i absolutely blame it for part of the polarization in the United States. That and unsecured networks and data that can be used by anyone to get just about anything. Dangerous.
Yeah, let me check a box that says I will not see anything with Elon Musk’s name in the headline or story, or his company’s names.
This is a problematic suggestion because more controls don’t mean a different experience. Overwhelmingly, most users will not adjust default settings even if aggressively nudged.

Source: have worked in big tech for decades, some of it in this space
Choice and control are 2 words that don’t go very well with multi billion dollar companies and their products. Customization has been slowly faded out over the past 20 years, and in favor of cheap, ultra efficient work to build a more restrictive, lazy, and visually unappealing products.
'Control' isn't what they're selling though, they're selling advertisement, and for it to work properly, you don't get a choice in it. 

Social media is all about the algorithm showing you some of what you want, and some of what they want; if they give you full control, you won't see everything they want you to see and they won't make a profit.
Letting people reinforce their echo chambers better is not a solution. The math of social media currently rewards conflict and controversy. 

Once you can change how content gets pushed into individual and general feeds to prefer community unifying posts over divisive ones, you will start to see positive change, but that’s a lot easier said than done.