Title: A California family has sued social media giants Google, Facebook and Twitter, claiming they provide material support to ISIS.The family lost their daughter in last November’s Paris terror attacks.

Post:


Top Comments:
honestly I hope they win. I know it sounds silly or insane, but I have good reasons. 

A lot of giant media companies state they don't control their users. However, it has been cited several times that these companies have edited, altered, or removed content they felt was offensive. By doing this I feel they are guilty by not removing the ISIS content.

So here is where I see the issue is Social media sites selectively edit, change, or remove post/content. The problem here comes when they make themselves social justice warriors. So by not removing something that leads to a crime they are actually taking part in that crime. 

I know it sound weird but lets look at it this way. I put up a bulletin board and say anyone can put anything they want on this board at their own risk. Now I have stated It is my bulletin board but I am not responsible for what others say or do. Now lets say later I decide I don't like somethings that are that board so start removing them. At that point I am creating the content on that bulletin board I feel is okay. Then lets say A hate group starts putting things on my bulletin board. I keep removing things off that board, but I always manage to skip over that hate groups content. Well Then by not removing it I am agreeing with that content. This make for a big issue.

Now I know this is a long post and I have thought it out a bit, I really hope something comes of this. These social media sites need to learn when they edit, or remove users posts they don't like they are now marking content they didn't remove as something they support. 
> honestly I hope they win.

I very much hope they do not.

everyone has their own beliefs, political leanings and viewpoint.  that means that no forum, BBS or other online platform is going to be moderated in a perfectly balanced manner, and even then you'd also have to have a perfectly balanced point of view to think it was appropriate.

by holding the moderations, administrators or publishers responsible for any content their users post, you'll instantly see the closure of those online platforms, because nobody will place themselves at considerable risk of being held responsible for anything done there.

that's basically the end of the internet.  be careful what you wish for on that one.
when some one moderates some thing they are responsible for things they miss so why should it be different for a company with more than an individual editing content?

I am saying make them responsible if they choose to moderate it. If they Feel it is their job they need to do it right. The more responsible choice to that is not moderating and let the individual be responsible unless laws require a removal of content


I am saying I hope they win, because these companies feel it is their job not to in force laws, but rather social justice, and remove content based on that. If they feel it is the jobs to be social justice warriors they need to be responsible when they fail at their job. 

I honestly think it isn't their job to be social justice warriors, and that these media sites shouldn't remove content unless is request to be remove by the law. These sites are covered under several laws that make it so they only need to remove content when ordered if it is a violation of the law.

You are arguing that what I am saying will bring an end to freedom on the internet. However, selective social justice is already starting down that path. I am simply saying it isn't their job so if they are going to make it their job the better be able to take responsibility when they fail. 

EDIT: Also if your are going to quote what I am say at the lest quote the whole statement. The accompanying statement about it being silly or insane point of view.

It would be like me quoting you saying 
>you'd also have to have a perfectly balanced point of view to think it was appropriate. 

It can change the meaning when you don't quote the whole thing, just saying.
moderation means taking action when something doesn't comply with the rules.  not that it's legal/illegal, agrees with someone's point of view etc.

there's no connotation that the moderator agrees with the content.  or even that the moderator has OK'd it, because on most platforms moderation works by exception when someone else objects, not that the moderation team has to vet and OK every single post.

sorry, but what you're seeking to do is make the moderators responsible for the content provided by the poster.  the poster put it there, they are responsible for their words.

believing otherwise is the same thinking that leads people to the idea that car makers are responsible for the mistakes of drivers, gun makers are responsible for mass shootings, and that spoons are somehow responsible for making people fat.

it's personal responsibility, pure and simple.

selective social justice is alive and well.  reddit alone is a hotbed of left-wing views because it's mainly populated by younger people.  you've got the full and free choice not to participate in any platform if you don't like the prevailing viewpoint there.  I'm sure most libertarians don't go into /r/The_Donald/ the much either.

as for selective quoting, pardon me if I didn't copy every character you posted.  given my post appeared immediately below yours, most people should be able to place the comments in context if they care to?