Title: Why is hate speech wrong against any group of people, but okay when directed towards drug abusers?

Post:
In attempt to curb & solves property crimes, "Stolen Stuff Hawaii" was made by civilians, to post pictures of suspicous activities, property damage, surveilance screenshots, lost and found or stolen items reports etc. 

Mostly the page is just a circle jerk of "proud fur baby mamas" that lose and find their Chihuahuas twice a week, or people trying to get gold stars for returning a hydroflask they found on the bus to its rightful owner.

But the actual crime related posts seem to be full of threats and hate speech condemning thieves (and assumed drug users) to death for petty thefts. 
One recent post was a picture of a female "porch pirate" stealing a fed ex delivery that contained cookware. 

Comments ranged from "cut off the dirty bitches hands", "SHOOT THAT FAKA" "dis why we need da PURGE" to advice that if the OP had been home, they should have shot the girl, put a knife in her hand and claim self defense to the police. 

Another recent post of 3 people allegedly stealing a money pouch from a small restaurant containing a few hundred dollars brought on the same "and democrats trying to take our guns away, smh..." "no hope for thieves, lock em up for life" "stealing to support their habit, now maybe they get enough to OD" etc., plus countless "worthless monsters" "evil chronics" "druggie scum" "not even human" type insult combos. 

Occasionally some brave soul will say something about social reforms or rehab programs instead of prisons, or reminders that the perps are people too. This is, without fail, met with a barrage of scolding and rage claiming that there is no excuse, no leniency, no extenuating circumstance, no type of help or counselling or service that can turn these vile zombie meth heads back to humans; followed by suggestions to go to church and relearn right from wrong etc. 

One comment in particular really caught my attention-  this is an exact quote:
*"..if someone were to taint the batu(meth)/drugs with something lethal...ehhhhh no big loss."*

This lady is suggesting fatally poisoning literally thousands of people.

 Hawaii has a large proportion of meth users, which undoubtedly is a contributer to crime. But there are many hardworking, high functioning, "normal", contributing people with jobs and families and a meth habit that you would never know if they didnt tell you. They'd all die too, along with the guy who stole your lawnmower or your bicycle. The "purge" related comments are constant, but this one is a real, actionable threat that has been done in other states by vigilante justice type groups like this one.

I'm not in any way justifying the crimes that this page is complaining about (although many posts just report a "suspicious male spotted walking down street at night... Watch out" that sound like George Zimmerman/Trayvon Martin instigations). But the members have become so comfortable talking about killing people for thefts amounting to less than $100. Stealing is wrong but killing is somehow okay?

I had wanted to post this in r/AITA but it references violence thereby violating their rules. Am I wrong to be disturbed by what I'm seeing here?

Top Comments:
I don't believe it is right that people automatically assume that people can't be helped and it is definitely a mental disorder, but I do believe meth and other drugs of its kind are extremely rare to get off of. 

Additionally, you're talking about the normal users, most of the time they can't sustain their habits via normal jobs/lose these positions do to not showing up, drug tests, etc. So they end up falling to crime and other things. 

I think you are in the right for being disturbed by these comments, but honestly, why does it matter to you what other people say?

Some background on me, my dad and uncle have been meth addicts for the past 15 years, so I have an understanding of the types of people who you are referring to.
Haters are gonna hate. Whether it’s road rage or social media outrage or venting their spleen. 
I mention social media and so called road rage because both seem to offer people places where they feel they can be angry and behave badly, in ways they wouldn’t behave ordinarily. IMHO, thus revealing their true natures.
I don't follow a lot of local crime pages purely because of the ignorance and negativity. It only helps if people make these posts using their real name and I then know who to avoid on the street in my small city.

I live in an area with a lot of racial tension, youth crime and drug abuse. It's really sad to read comments like "throw them down an abandoned mineshaft" or "bring back the death penalty". 

A couple of years ago a teenager was knocked off a motorbike that the owner was trying to recover and he died. It shut down some vigilante talk but it's all back on now :(
lemme guess, this is a fb group.😒 these groups are so toxic.

screenshot and show the police. ur not wrong to be disturbed.
I can't argue with any of that, apart from it being extremely rare to quit. At least in my experience, although it would be a majority that dont, many people i know were users for years and now are sober and employed- have sort of grown out of it. 

I probably should have acknowledged my bias in the post, but I didnt want to be too quickly dissmissed as a raving lunatic that might eat my neighbor's dog, but I am a meth user of 6 years now. 

Unfortunately the area I live in is absolutely saturated with the stuff. My apartment building has 18 units. Of these, 10 units have meth users in them. So its troubling to me that people are so calmly contemplating poisoning the supply, not that I'm scared this would actually happen, I don't. But the disdain reflected by their comments I find to be totally counterproductive- thinking that most people look at you like a pest to be exterminated makes it even harder to seek treatment, both out of fear of judgement and out of the belief that we are all beyond help, wouldn't be able to fix ourselves, cause thats what they're telling us. 

I don't expect to be commended for doing drugs. I know it's a decision that has forever changed my life for the negative in most aspects, as well as drains those around me. This weighs heavily on my conscience, but I don't think being killed is the best or only solution.
Thanks for that analogy, makes it a little less disturbing knowing that this kind of thing happens in other situations
Understandably, and I'm sure a lot of it could be dismissed as venting their frustration. But I feel they are crossing a line by actually discussing ways of killing all drug users, as if they aren't people and have no hope of recovery