Title: Watch what you tweet: How online troll crackdowns threaten freedom of speech. Abusive comments and racist insults are the stock and trade of the Web, but now British police have begun cracking down and making arrests. What ever happened to freedom of speech, and where do we draw the line?

Post:


Top Comments:
Didn't read the whole article but the first paragraph bugs me. He wasn't arrested for saying Daley let his father down, he was arrested for Making a literal death threat, saying he was going to drown the guy or something along those lines. This makes me question the legititamacy of the entire article. 
People keep blowing these stories out of proportion.

They aren't "saying bad things" they are making **death threats!**

Now while I agree, its on twitter, I'm 99% sure they don't mean it and are just being cunts, its still a threat to kill someone - A death threat is handled in the same way in all civilized countries.
He also threatened to kill him which is why he was arrested. Not because of the initial comment that just generated a lot of initial attention and it escalated from there. 
For this sort of thing, I guess you draw the line at hate speech laws.  Europe has them, the US does not.
>You may have seen the news about the Twitter troll in the UK who was arrested for sending an abusive message to diver and gold medal hopeful, Tom Daley. After Daley failed to win a medal, a 17-year-old boy sent a malicious tweet which read, “You let your dad down I hope you know that.”

The boy ALSO threatened to kill the diver on a later Tweet which may have been the actual Tweet that got him arrested. It's incredibly how many news services, bloggers and internent commentators are missing out on that basic fact.

>What ever happened to freedom of speech

This is in England.  They don't have freedom of speech.  At least not in the way we do in the US.  In fact most countries don't.  They have laws that make certain types of speech illegal, whereas in the US, we have it in our constitution that we can't make such laws.  Kinda naive to think that our principles do, or even should apply to all other nations honestly.
The phrase is "stock in trade" (i.e. the stuff that a shopkeeper would keep on a regular basis: the normal stuff), not "stock and trade".