Title: Texas court upholds law banning tech companies from censoring viewpoints | Critics warn the law could lead to more hate speech and disinformation online

Post:


Top Comments:
From the article: For the past year, Texas has been fighting in court to uphold a controversial law that would ban tech companies from content moderation based on viewpoints. In May, the Supreme Court narrowly blocked the law, but this seemed to do little to settle the matter. Today, the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals overturned a lower Texas court's decision to block the law, ruling instead that the Texas law be upheld, The Washington Post reported.

According to the Post, because two circuit courts arrived at differing opinions, the ruling is "likely setting up a Supreme Court showdown over the future of online speech." In the meantime, the 5th Circuit Court's opinion could make it tempting for other states to pass similar laws.

Trump-nominated Judge Andrew Stephen Oldham joined two other conservative judges in ruling that the First Amendment doesn't grant protections for corporations to "muzzle speech."
Well texas better also go after truth social because they block viewpoints such as abortion is healthcare and anything bad about trump. 👍
So if I own a forum and I make revenue from adds. And if I suddenly start getting a vocal minority that is driving the majority away with their rhetoric and my revenue takes a hit because of it. So this law says basically that I have to let the vocal minority run my business into bankruptcy because I'm no longer allowed to moderate posts and subject mater?
>Trump-nominated Judge Andrew Stephen Oldham joined two other conservative judges in ruling that the First Amendment doesn't grant protections for corporations to "muzzle speech."

So it's OK for a baker to not add messages on cakes that they don't agree with. But a private company has no authority to moderate content on their own platform in order to keep from devolving into a cesspit.

God, they really are making this up as they go along.
Could social media platforms just refuse to “operate” in Texas if this law stands? Could they put in their TOS that they block all IP’s from Texas and that efforts to circumvent will result in a permanent ban? They could also require all users to submit a state of residence in their account registration, not allow TX as an option, and ban users from TX who lie about the state they’re in.

I mean, that would only last as long it takes for other states to adopt the same law, but maybe banning TX would discourage them from doing that.