Title: Which Social Media Is The Most... Social?

Post:
I feel like social media is less social nowadays, with everyone on the same space but not socializing. Just posting and commenting with not much engagement. Most forums are dead too.

So, which social media is the most social? If there are any left at all

Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Most seem to involve repetitive meme sharing and algorithms that feed back what you search for, I searched for a thing about Sydney Sweeney about 4 months back when she was trending and I’m still getting fed the same pictures each day, why? Because no-one is posting original content. Hardly anyone on FB writes statuses or posts their take (unless they are mad at someone they know/ passive aggressive posts) 

I think Twitter is dead/dying. Honestly covid probably killed most everyday people’s desires to meet new people. I think MeetUp app is the best for actually making in real life people/ friends, if you are a shy/ introvert, want to connect I would say look in your area at groups - online spaces seem typically more toxic and egotistical than irl ones - even online dating is ridiculously toxic

Reddit is anon, but ironically is the best one for talking to people (just don’t try and befriend them outside of here lol)
Recently for me it’s actually been Threads. It’s a wonderful small community and I love that everyone always interacts from a point of kindness and safety. It’s just a nice vibe and the environment makes me feel comfortable to share things.
Great question actually, I'd say one of the only big players that isn't ALL just about consuming content is Instagram, there is a reason every artist uses it as the main platform to connect with their audience, funneling audiences to instagram from platforms like TikTok where that interaction is much harder to obtain. It really depends on your circle and who you follow there, there are accounts with great friendly communities but you can also just as easily turn your feed into a brainrot content factory if you're not careful. On the other hand someone met someone in the comments on one of my accounts and they've been together for 3 years now, there is space for beautiful interaction there still.
I feel like it depends on the generation you belong to and the culture you identify with. I'm 26, and for me, the most social platform is Instagram. When I moved to Canada, I discovered Reddit and fell in love with it because it feels more genuine. There are no haters, negative comments, or other issues you might find on other social media platforms.
I'll do a little shameless plug. Jabburr is new and raw without the algorithms. We'd love some feedback on how to improve.
Jabburr is in live beta on the app stores.