Title: What are your rules for hiding comments?

Post:
I'm an account supervisor at a marketing agency. We manage social strategy for several clients (brands, not individuals) in a variety of industries. Recently, we got a negative comment on a post and after a discussion internally, we felt that the best course of action was to hide the comment. We have always considered hiding comments to be a last resort effort, but there are situations when it's appropriate (hate speech/offensive lanugage, personal attacks on employees of the business, etc). 

I'm very curious about how others deal with challenging comments and what your bar is for hiding/deleting things. When, if ever, do you hide comments? 

Top Comments:
If this post doesn't follow the rules [report it to the mods](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/). Have more questions? [Join our community Discord!](https://discord.gg/looking-for-marketing-discussion-811236647760298024).


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Our client's product is 100% legit w/ happy customers, but attracts a small group of aggressively hostile attackers. Usually we can cordially debunk their attack via a little friendly education and they don't keep engaging - but if they get seriously wheels-off, into personal attacks, doubling down on misinformation, etc., we hide it without hesitation. 

This is why it's so important to constantly monitor social - you don't want to let a ton of engagement get going on a horrible comment that could likely scare off other commenters with legit questions.

We don't get a lot of racist, sexist, political stuff but we hide all of that. There's just no upside to allowing it to be visible.

If we had a good-faith comment complaining about the actual product, we'd reassure them that we'd make it right, point them to our support team & leave the comment up.
I run social media for a nonprofit helping victims of domestic violence. We get a lot of bot comments for various scams that target victims do DV, so we hide those. We have also hidden comments from victims talking about their DV situation as that puts them, as well as our staff, in danger. We don't get many, but if someone comments some sort of complaint we don't hide it
We hide comments at my job when necessary. Sometimes comments are inappropriate or there are those people who are persistent and leave many comments even if we have tried to remedy the problem. If it's general constructive criticism though, we try to answer or resolve as best as possible. It really is a case by case basis!
The nature of the comment is what determines if I would hide it or not. If the comment doesn't add any positive value to the subject or it's a spam, I'll hide it because it's for the better good. 
Comments from haters that are always gonna hate get hidden right away. To them, the comment does not appear hidden. They just get no response and forget about it. Lots of spam on Facebook that I need to hide asap cause it will tag tons of our followers. Anything unnecessarily negative will be hidden