Title: Algorithm of the right 

Post:
Yes the title is meant to be sort of to the melody of 'children of the night'. 

OK so I run a small a FB page. Let's call it a small business. A game making studio of one. The only groups i am ever in are about a specific genre of computer game. I don't comment on random things, I don't even search or actively use the account/login. I pretty much use it for targeted bits of marketing or discussions within very specific groups of my game genre. 

All my suggested content is insane. Far right memes, incel sort of ideology, alien pyramids, outright offensive stuff about race and misogyny usually American based/themed. Some sort of budget trump style internet celebrities. Even lately some anti Islamic stuff. It's honestly horrible. 

I have no idea why this is the default feed for this account. I have been 'hiding' these kinds of posts for like 3/4 months now and it doesn't make any difference. Why am I in this horrible rabbit hole??? It's a major turn off. Genuinely depressing seeing all these horrible people back patting each other and the comments they make. 

What can I do? 

Edit had to add a flare to he able to post for some reason 

Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I'm sorry you're having to deal with this. It's frustrating that broadly speaking, Meta has the tech to simply suppress this type of content platform-wide & actively chooses not to.

1 - What is your game genre? 

2 - Actively liking acceptable content as your page might improve this over time - although no guarantees. 

3 - Sometimes their algos are glitchy too and based on your description of what's happening, that may be part of the problem in this specific case as well.
Something I've thought about (and consider doing from time to time): Lean into it. There are examples - Grand Theft Auto devs come to mind - where they would post in right wing forums to gin up outrage over their games. And like its been said; any attention is good attention. Just like Kevin Smith would go to protests over his own films, no one knew who he was, but he used it to stoke his fanbase. If you do go this route, post your journey, I think it'd be hysterical.
Thanks for replying. 

My main worry is that this is metas 'default' material to subject people to. I'm 38 and quite stubbornly resistant to it, but imagine the societal damage of pouring this into the heads of young people. Dangerous. 

1. The game genre is a point and click retro adventure puzzle game. It does contain adult humour but of course nothing controversial in any sense. More like monty python than anything else. Absurdism. But I don't see how the algorithm could know that specific detail anyway.

2. I figures this might help so I follow basically game development and adventure game groups. That's it.

3. Meta 'oops we accidentally incited anti social extremism. Whoopsies'. I hope this is not a common thing. For my day job I work with troubled teens and they eat this kind of nonsense up without a thought.
Unfortunately this is very much how "default"  Meta works. I'm surprised that the consistent blocking hasn't had much discernible effect, though. 

The good news is that the Meta platform isn't popular with teens at all, but the bad news is that there is a constant stream of this radicalizing stuff all over every popular social platform, busily & purposefully normalizing what should be shunned. 😞