Title: Do you feel governments need to step in and limit the consumption of Social Media ? 

Post:
This is a very honest question and everywhere county I got to and everyplace I visit, I meet many concerned people that all share that they know someone in their family where it is not uncommon for that person to spend anywhere between 5-14 hours a day on Social Media.
I am sure a lot of people can control themselves , but huge segment of the population are become zombies.
Depression among all age groups has been rising at an exponential rate. Obesity, mad mood, etc etc etc.
It is no secret that these social media platforms have hired Mind scientists to design these platforms where you constantly need a hit of dopamine.
I know in the US where individual freedom trumps everything else, people would balk at the idea.
But, if you look at proposed legislation all around the world, you will see that many countries have started talking about limiting social media consumption.
What do you think ?


Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
It's already happening worldwide. What I would prefer, rather than the flat bans which usually get floated, is that the law forces social media companies to prove they're doing what they can to limit or reduce negative impacts.


For example: removing addictive dark patterns, enabling better controls for parents, better time restriction options, public reporting on safety metrics, better content moderation, etc.


This would allow people to continue choosing what they want to use, while putting the onus on the companies themselves to improve their platforms.


(Also: I'm gonna start using "mind scientists" instead of psychologists now :D )
Well, if Australia's proposed law comes through, we will have a chance to see a social media ban for kids in action. I am actually okay with bans and safeguards for kids, as clearly social media is addictive. 

For adults, it's trickier, as clearly governments "let" adults partake in all kinds of addictive behaviors. But maybe if we can teach kids how to better interact with social media, they will not fall as far down the rabbit hole.
Yes. Oh hell yes! I want govt to be as big as possible! 

I want govt to control things that I can control and regulate myself!

Banger idea!
Clicking on Reddit while listening to TV. That is the topic. Most of the people are saying they need to take care of their mental health, so they have disconnected their cable TV. Some people are saying they are disappointed into the cable news.
And shouldn't do that on adults. Give people access to therapy instead of depriving people of their right to privacy. Parental controls solve any problems with vulnerable people, the rest of us can take responsibility for our choices.
By educating parents on how to protect their kids and when they fail to protect their kids in any serious way you get CPS involved.

We don't get to make choices for adults though. You want to ruin your life? If you have access to therapy you don't really have an excuse so give people the chance to get therapy and that's that.