Title: Leaked Meta Rules: Users Are Free to Post “Mexican Immigrants Are Trash!” or “Trans People Are Immoral” - Under Meta's relaxed hate speech rules, users can now post "I'm a proud racist" or "Black people are more violent than whites."

Post:


Top Comments:
I'm willing to bet posting "DONALD TRUMP SHNARFLES DEEPLY ON PUTIN'S GROIN" will likely prove that the filters are in place, just under a new algorithm.
Some arsehole made an extremely racist comment about my wife this morning on FB. Neo Nazi stuff.

FB will do nothing and now the racists are emboldened.

This won’t end well.
They don’t actually moderate that place at all. The reporting function is like one of those crosswalk buttons that isn’t wired into anything.
Once upon a time Facebook was a tool to connect with friends and family. We shared pictures, we coordinated get-togethers, we planned trips, we built relationships, we made lifetime friends, and some of us even married one of those lifetime friends IRL. Today my feed is almost entirely pages I don't subscribe to, because I guess that's a thing Facebook has decided I want to see more than what my friends are doing. I stopped posting a few months ago because it just feels like I'm trying to shout into an avalanche of SEO spam, AI slop, engagebait, and advertising.

Today I connect with much smaller, much closer groups of friends through Signal and Telegram. There's no noise. I don't have to think about my posts being mined by some AI adbot that's going to regurgitate them at me.

In my 20s I was going to nightclubs and live shows every weekend with thousands of people, and now I'd rather share some good bourbon around the campfire with a few friends. That's what this change feels like.
Hot take:

This isnt making these insufferable people any more or less hateful and miserable, so it doesn't really matter.

The platform was already a cesspool that should not be frequented and no longer keeping a veneer of civility behind arbitrary rules enforcing a minimum of decency was just making what was brimming underneath the surface with memes and double speak rise to the top.

Just make the decision to finally abandon the platform and cut ties with people who behave this way. This is Facebook's loss and you shouldnt have to beg them to police the internet.
I've seen this one, it's when the bad guy is being chased, and suddenly jumps into a holiday parade, and gets lost in the mix of noises indistinguishable  from one another. An excellent execution of the agenda/production.