Title: Florida asks Supreme Court if it's OK to ban content moderation it doesn't like | Nothing screams Land of the Free like the government ordering you to host awful but lawful content

Post:


Top Comments:
I am looking forward to hearing SCOTUS explain how you can't be forced to make a cake for someone you think is "disgusting" but you can be forced to signal boost their disgusting comments and "ideas"

The amusement of witnessing those mental gymnastics will *almost* offset having to live in a neo-fascist state.
Republicans: we are the party of small government.

Also Republicans: you can't say these words, your teacher can teach this history only, your doctor can only give you care that we approve, if you're a woman with a uterus you can only do this with your body (with our approval). Now they want to be able to spread lies that they approve of over social media despite social media's objections. 

But tell me again how the "Dems are coming for your rights.”  Idiots.
From the article: The State of Florida has asked the US Supreme Court to affirm that its social media law SB 7072, which bars online platforms from removing speech they don't want, meets constitutional free speech guarantees.

[SB 7072](https://www.flsenate.gov/Session/Bill/2021/7072/BillText/er/HTML), signed into law on May 24, 2021, prevents internet platforms from booting off political candidates, restricts state purchases of internet services if the company has been so much as accused (not necessarily found guilty) of violating an antitrust law by a state official, and disallows various forms of content moderation.

Adopted amid conservative pique about the deplatforming of a former US President and the removal of political chum, the law was challenged by tech group plaintiffs NetChoice and CCIA on May 27, 2021. The court hearing the case granted a preliminary injunction, freezing the law, on June 4 and a permanent injunction on June 30, 2021.

The State of Florida fared no better in its appeal: in May, 2022, the US Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals partially upheld the injunction blocking the law.

"When platforms choose to remove users or posts, deprioritize content in viewers’ feeds or search results, or sanction breaches of their community standards, they engage in First-Amendment-protected activity," the appeals court said in its decision.
I always knew the Conservative lament of 'we're the only true protectors of the constitution' would inevitably come down to them redefining it solely to their benefit, but seeing it happening in slow motion has been something else.

And even if this goes completely the GOPs way I get the feeling that r/conservative is still going to ban anyone who disagrees with them.
So clearly someone in Florida needs to flood "Truth" with actual truth, and then sue them when it's removed and they're banned, right?