Title: Utah school district takes steps to protect teen after school board member appears to question girl’s gender on social media

Post:


Top Comments:
“In the post, which has the header “Constitutionally Protected Speech,” Cline says she removed her original post to protect the player after multiple parents raised concerns, and she asserted she “never claimed the student was a boy.”

“She does have a larger build, like her parents,” Cline said of the high school girl.”

What is that, a triple down on being absolutely vile?
Just another demonstration that right wingers don’t actually care about athletes. Harassing a student athlete because you don’t think she looks girly enough is disgusting behavior from Cline.

Edit: the article doesn’t mention, but as I assumed: she is a republican
Not “appears”. She flat out called the kid trans and then blamed trans people for *her* bigotry. This is what you get when you vote Republican: bigoted religious zealots. Stop voting Republican.
I've been saying for years. This witch hunting for trans people is gonna start affecting cis-women who don't look or act super feminine. god forbid a woman achieve anything too, she might be a man!
It's so fucking dumb, this controlling obsession with other people's bodies. 

The same half of this country that clamors on about "'Murica" and "freedom" ironically wants to steal away pregnant women and transgender people's most basic freedom: autonomy over their own bodies. 

They even act entitled about it, downright pissed. Blows my mind, really.
> “We live in strange times *when it is normal* to pause and wonder if people are what they say they are because of the push to normalize transgenderism in our society.”

Uh, no, nothing about that is *normal*. It's just become an unhealthy obsession of many people due to right wingers who are scapegoating the hell out of the trans community. This board member is so far gone and has no business being in a profession that involves children.
This school board member is not only unfit for her position, she is a threat to the student body. She deliberately used her position to put a target on this girl’s back so she could get political points. Evil.
What an utter scum bag- same for those who go after people for just existing, as well as the girl because of their insanity.

What hypocritical person. "[Natalie seeks to restore freedom in America by ensuring every student in Utah is educated in the principles of freedom.](https://schools.utah.gov/board/members/utah/nataliecline)" 

Nice little religious quote for her to read, if she would ever read her own religious doctrine: "Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness."
Proof that anti-LGBT policies harm cis people too. That kind of authoritarianism translates to policing people over imaginary transgressions against gender norms. 