Title: Ex-content moderator sues YouTube, claims job led to PTSD symptoms and depression The worker watched videos that included beheadings, shootings and child abuse, according to the lawsuit.

Post:


Top Comments:
I did this job for two years. I've seen things you wouldn't believe. I've watched people quit after two days from the nightmares. I've reported child porn to NCMEC. It got to the point where you breathe a sigh of relief when it's not the "bad kind" (read: brutal rape). Eastern European children setting puppies on fire and laughing. Bahrain security forces murdering protestors. CG babies eating naked women then getting indigestion and puking them out. It made me stronger, mentally, but I'd be lying if I didn't say that it didn't affect me.

Edit: A "CG" baby is "computer generated" - basically terrible 3d fetish animations
I used to work on a team like this for a website in the early days of broadband internet, when higher quality gifs and video streaming were in their infancy.

We worked in shifts, 4 days on, 4 days off, 10 hours a day. There were 3 shifts per day so you were always overlapping with everyone else on the rotation for part of your shift.

The moment your shift ended you spoke to a staff mental health advisor. While you were off, you got two calls a day, usually around lunch time and after dinner time, from a mental health advisor. These advisors were on call 24-7, and they *also had their own separate set of advisors.*

I don’t know how YouTube’s setup worked, but I feel like it wasn’t better than the setup I had back in those days.

Our turnover rate month over month was about 80%. It’s been about 20 years and I still have nightmares.
I’ve always wondered, do these guys have to watch the full video or can they stop once it gets to the first frame of, say, a dog being lit on fire and be like “yeah okay this clearly has violence to animals, delete it”?
When cops have to review things like child porn or really graphic violence, there are rules for how much they're allowed to watch (I believe max 2 hours a day), and there are trained mental health counsellors constantly on standby. These cops still have a hard time, which is understandable, but they have a safety net and are as well taken care of as they can be. 

However, a lot of the companies whose employees review website content don't have or don't want to invest in these kinds of resources. I've read an interview with a Facebook moderator who said he worked normal office hours with very little mental health support. He said the turnover rate was immense as people kept having breakdowns, substance abuse was pretty much the norm, and everyone he worked with was showing textbook PTSD symptoms. And honestly, you can't fucking blame him, as just ONE of the videos he described was of an 11 year-old girl being anally raped. 

These companies aren't like the police, because they only want to make money. Which, in and of itself, isn't a bad thing, because that's what companies do. But that means they're gonna cut costs wherever they are willing and able to, and oftentimes those cost-cutting measures go at the expense of their employees.
It is absolutely vile what some evil people get their kicks from, and I have complete sympathy for those who are expected to have to review footage of such heinous activities... many law enforcement agents that deal with crimes of these nature have also had to deal with the trauma of it.  We don't want to lose platforms to share media, so maybe this will be one area where AI will be able to help reduce the harm to victims (including those that are witness to the reprehensible crimes)
Jesus fucking Christ.

Sounds like the worst job in the world.

Imagine if your job is to watch the worst that social media have to offer.
My first job out of college was to basically weed out child porn from the bulk data Amazon bought so the rest could be linked up recommend ads to people. I got paid at most 15/hr, it was a decade ago now, and it was definitely not enough.

This was done while dangling the prospect of becoming a normal Amazon employee in front of college grad's noses.

It was not appropriate, moral, or good business.
I watched a torture video of Syrian soldier in an ISIS jail cell long time ago and it still hunts me everyday  (I lost almost 48 hours of sleep the one time I watched it). I can't believe the people who have to watch and review this kind of shit for a living.
Saw a dead body get pulled from the river on Sunday and its been etched into my mind ever since.  I can't imagine how the divers who do the work are able to deal with that.   Makes me think some people's minds just work a bit differently.   Perhaps they need to do a better job screening the staff who have to do these tasks.