Title: Social Media is Toxic

Post:
Today, I deleted all my social media accounts, (Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook), at least temporarily, in hopes of building myself as an individual.

Being a user myself, I find it disturbing how petty and superficial our reliance on social media has become. Instead of developing our personalities through real life experiences, we have developed digital walls. Walls filled with ideas of perfectionism and unrealistic standards of life. I'm still mind blown that we once lived in a world where social media was just another piece of entertainment. Now, it seems to be a necessity to function in life. You are not cool unless you have social media. If you don't, you are deemed a social outcast. I am tired of others and myself convinced that our world is filled with perfection. Filters, angles, captions, and moments on these sites/apps are a lie. Life is not a picture, nor can it be summarized in a bunch of captions. We are not one dimensional people, yet we are glued to boxes with snippets of other people's lives.We wake up first thing in the morning checking our notifications to see how many likes and comments we've garnered.  This was me, and I know this is a lot of you out there too. But at the end of the day, does of any this matter?!? If we as a community rely on digital acceptance to function as human beings, then I am disappointed. Our happiness should not be defined by social media, let alone a heart or like. Social media is harmful to us, especially to the younger generation. 

Nowadays, we can't take a photo without some sort of embellishment, the "right" angle, or even a filter. We've been convinced that anything less than perfect is a flaw, and thus unacceptable. Muscles, boobs, ass, lips, accomplishments, awards, etc. defines beauty and success. If it's not an already altered image of ourself, it's one of something like FOOD. For fuck's sake, I see Snapchat stories literally everyday filled with just food! But for what?! To make someone jealous? Does happiness really need to come through the acceptance of others with a single like on a post? a view?  And let's not forget those people out there that actually show their real reality. If anything, I find these people just as selfish. These post their reality and brand themselves a survivor or a realist. But if there's anything that you are, it's that you are just as narcissistic as anyone else bragging about the good in their lives. Our intentions on posting may be harmless, but our mindset is so focused on the opinions of other people. When are we going to focus on ourselves? Doing things for ourselves, because of what we want and need regardless of what other people may think. 

I just really hate what social media has done to our society, or at least mines. Nothing feels genuine anymore. A picture is taken to be posted on Snapchat. A video to be shared on our story. An activity because it's popular on Instagram. We read posts on a person's facebook and assume to know their whole life. 

Social media is not life, it's a wall, and I despise it.

Top Comments:
or you could just accept its a highlight reel and move on. what kind of deep moments are u hoping for on a day to day basis?
 
 "hey yall I ate some toast today do u think free will exists"
 
More often than not I find that when people post things like these advertising the fact they were leaving social media they're doing so in a self-congratulatory Manner and that they believe that they have risen above the masses and seen some sort of truth that other people haven't you're not significantly better you just don't know how to use the unfollow feature on social media
i mean there is nothing wrong with deleting your social media accounts, but your blaming the wrong thing. Social media isn't toxic, how people are using it is toxic. How people are relating to it is toxic. With that being said, the advent of this sort of thing is definitely requiring a readjustment of society on a large scale. There are definitely some kinks to work out. But get off your fucking soapbox about how quitting social media and acting like a fucking martyr. Social media wasn't good for you, so you cut it out- thats it. You're not getting a fucking token for it.
If you're an everyday user of social media I understand it can be toxic but it can be useful at times. It depends how you use it. Although I agree how it lately has grown to something where some people always need to validate their actions/happiness with others and be connected all the time with everyone by using email/whatsapp.  But i am more worried about the disconnectivity it brings with the direct surroundings and social skills being lost.

 People in restaurant s are most of the time on their phone instead of interacting, instead of overcoming an awkward silence people tend to take the easy way out and go to their phone. When you sometimes talk to someone direct they tend to be distracted by responding at times to messages instead of listening. The concentration of some people are getting alarming low. everytime something difficult/boring/awkward or some work comes up they use the easy way out and go straight to their phone. It's not only social media that can be precieved as toxic , but also email/instant chat messengers/news feeds and even sites like reddit. If you use it in moderation it's not a big thing but if you use those as an escape from work/real interaction/validation ... Then you should change that habit immediately


This is a great way to put it: "we as a community rely on digital acceptance to function as human beings." I thought this post was fantastic and I agree with everything the author says. Interestingly, the highly voted comments here insult the author for being hypocritical, immature, and misguided. Of course, this is the subreddit ABOUT Social Media, so those who are following the sub and bothering to write long comments on it, are probably professionals in that industry, and have a lot to lose from people making the realizations that that guy articulated. I'm in my late 30s and managed to avoid and deflect having to manage a parallel online relationship with those I know socially, but if I were even just in my early 30s right now, I don't know if I'd be able to do that (assuming I were to have any friends of girlfriends in that case too), since social media is a major part of how people HAVE social relationships now, and it (meaning various apps) are  how hundreds of millions of people are communicating when they are not together, instead of using a phone-number-to-phone-number phone call. 
Seems like you’ve really thought this through. I applaud you in your quest for more profound and emotionally fulfilling experiences. 

Good luck. 
Reddit is a form of social media, fyi.


Even right now, I could be a total dick against my nature (believe it or not) to comment on your post and “troll” you, projecting negative feelings.

SM has certainly changed the game of life, but life was never meant to be static in the first place. It is a evolution of human communication, and it turns out people are assholes when they have a digital barrier.

 I am not encouraging you to use social media in any state of form, but I implore you that given the fact that it is still relatively new, there is still time to determine its effect on society.

But there are some positives. Word can travel quickly now and political regimes have fallen thanks to social media. Issues can be brought to light quicker, like Snowden’s reavel about the NSA.

Personally, I feel SM is a Pandora’s box that is here to stay. If used properly, for example Reddit, then it can be a powerful tool for the right person.

Sadly it is a personal decision that you will make. It would be hypocritical of anyone to encourage a different lifestyle because you don’t find SM particularly useful. 
As Gary Vee said, social media is just a mirror and it exposes your true self. You can run away from it all you want but our world is now mobile optimised and everyone is using social media whether you like it or not.

Hats off to you for taking yourself off social to find something within yourself but you'll be back on in a few weeks, months or years.