Title: I'm a Social Media Manager and I'm glad TikTok it getting banned.

Post:
For the past three years I've been managing the social media for a ski shop and I'm happy that TikTok is being banned. This year I've done a lot of reading and reflecting on the negative impacts of social media, the app is terrible for our mental health and attention spans, especially teen's whose brains are still developing.

The past three years I've also noticed negative changes to other social media platforms as a result trying to compete with the addictive model of TikTok. Its influence has made social media platforms like Instagram and Facebook even worse with the FYP replacing the main feed of people you follow. Now Instagram and Facebook feeds more resemble a FYP than when they focused primarily on friends and pages you follow. Though social media is my job, this past year I've stopped using my personal accounts, as these platforms have become more addictive and have lost much of their social value. My Facebook feed is now almost entirely pages I don't follow, with my Instagram feed being very similar.

Sure, I'm going to miss posting a video on TikTok and having it get thousands of views in hours as opposed to other platforms, but I also know the algorithms that are pushing our videos and damaging to our attention spans and mental health.

I believe people post great videos (I hate the word content) on TikTok, but the model of its addictiveness is unhealthy and harmful to our society, especially kids and teens.

Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
If you think tiktok will just cease to exist then you misunderstood how this work

Tiktok as a platform will stay regardless of the verdict. The name/ownership etc may have to change but on a consumer level absolutely nothing will change.
I don’t disagree with a lot of what you’re saying but not sure I’m following how banning TikTok plays in… couldn’t your point be made for any of the platforms? Heck before TikTok it was Vine, or MySpace or Snapchat (kinda). If TikTok goes away there will be another platform, and then another platform after that.
I disagree, I’m a social media manager and I also make story time videos. I also never use TIKTOK, I’m an Instagram kind of person.

That being said, the comments I get on TIKTOK are so sweet and kind. YouTube shorts on the other hand, comments are so mean for no reason whatsoever, that I just disable comments. It’s never feedback either, it’s just people mocking my voice or threatening to hit me with a 2x4.
Social media apps are fighting for user screen time to boost ad revenue and other business objectives. Even if tiktok gets banned, it won't be the last addictive app. Meta, YouTube, and other apps are continuing to write algorithms to keep users on their platforms longer and more frequent, like a daily habit
I'm an Australian who works for a social media company and we just passed legislation in Australia to ban kids under 16 from social media apps and I bloody support it. Social media is not a children's toy. It needs to be regulated like every other drug/tool that messes with your additive side (gambling, alcohol,etc.)
The app being banned has nothing to do with the addictive nature of it’s algorithm so it won’t solve any issue you’re relaying. If a ban happens, users will migrate over to Reels and Shorts
TikTok is addictive because they actually allow for discovery. Facebook Zero is a thing that Facebook did 4 years ago to require brands to pay to get seen by their own followers. No sympathy.