Title: European Union orders X to hand over algorithm documents | EC has also requested access to information on how X moderates and amplifies content

Post:


Top Comments:
EU has put in place the [Digital Services Act](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/policies/dsa-vlops) that targets amongst other things *Very Large Online Platforms*.  
This is legislation that is already in effect since 2022.   
DSA dictates among other things  "**be transparent as regards advertising, recommender systems or content moderation decisions**" and also has provisions to **avoid risks  "in public security and electoral processes" .**  
This was put in place as Russia constantly tries to interfere in national elections in several European countries via trolls, bots, ads and fake news spreading etc in social media.   
The law should be applied even if the trolls bots, ads and fake news to interfere in electoral process comes from the other side of the Atlantic.
Reporting highlights:

>The expanded probe by the European Commission, announced on Friday, requires X to hand over internal documents regarding its recommendation algorithm. The Commission also issued a “retention order” for all relevant documents relating to how the algorithm could be amended in future.
>
>In addition, the EU regulator requested access to information on how the social media network moderates and amplifies content.
>
>The move follows complaints from politicians in Germany that X’s algorithm is promoting content by the far right ahead of the country’s February 23 elections. Musk has come out in favor of the nationalist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, arguing that it will save Germany.
>
>When asked if the expanded probe was a response to a controversial interview Musk conducted last week with AfD co-leader Alice Weidel, a commission spokesperson said the new request helped “us monitor systems around all these events taking place.”
>
>However, he said it was “completely independent of any political considerations or any specific events.”

If and how the company and its ownership complies with this demand will be worth watching, especially for any jurisdiction that is also being affected by these algorithmic recommendations on social media platforms.
If Xitter does this, it will be heavily, and secretly, redacted and altered to give a far more benign impression than reality would. IF they even comply. Xitter is Skum's tool to create global chaos that he believes his wealth will let him take full advantage of. And he could be right.

So will he back out of EU entirely (heavily doubt that) or just lie? Or just delay, prevaricate, litigate, blah blah the usual oligarch methods. And of course he'll use Xitter to spread all kinds of misinformation about this, and since it will come from "everywhere", the low-smarts millions that continue to use Xitter will believe it.

So:

1. Lies?

2. Leave EU?

3. Delaying tactics for years, while he tries to undermine any government who tries to stop him?
Bold of them to assume there is any kind of documented process for algorithm changes, beyond Elon screaming at employees after ripping a line of ket
The EU doesn't mess around regarding consumer rights and privacy.  I wonder whether we'll ever see Xitter exit the EU.