Title: Nazi forums closed as Reddit purges 'violent content' - Reddit has closed down several extremist forums after updating its policy regarding violent content.

Post:


Top Comments:
Guys, before you go on the reddit hates right wing people rant, take a look at cached versions of these subs. They clearly promote the death of non whites. Also, they closed anti white subs as well, which called out violence against white people. I really think we need to take a step back and really see which subs are clearly advocating for violence. They just happen to be more right wing subs. I don't think they should take down antifa or t_d since the content doesn't directly advocate for violence, although some users might. I really agree with what reddit is doing and they're being very cautious about it. I'd love to hear other opinions though

Edit: First, thank you for the gold. I know  everyone says it, but I'd feel shitty not saying it at all. Secondly, I'd love to respond to everyone but I really can't. I just want to say that my opinion is that grouping people up isn't always the best idea when it comes to assessing them. I have met so many wonderful liberals and conservatives that really have challenged how I feel about those groups in general. If people have questions for me, feel free to pm me. I'd love to hear more from everyone.
Got into a comment fight with a nazi yesterday. He informed me that he's not a nazi, he's a national socialist. You see, nazis don't actually exist. They're apparently a charicature invented by the media.

Then, without missing a beat, he told me the holocaust was a jewish conspiracy used to cover up Russia attrocities or something, gays "chase aids" and should be exterminated, white america was crime free before we let in those damned third worlders, the germans were the real victims in WWII and were totally innocent, and that I have no proof he wants to purge the world of anyone despite a direct quote of his calling for the extermination of gays.

I'm honestly in love with him. He's something truly special. An honest to god nazi who doesn't believe in the existence of nazis. Like a unicorn telling you magic doesnt exist.