Title: What is something you hate about social media scheduling websites?

Post:
I'm a developer looking to built a social media scheduling and managing website but I don't what it to be another generic one, I would love to know what your frustrations are with current websites so that I could provide a better solution for you.

Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
With IG, or probably more specifically Instagram’s API. It makes the functionality of scheduling apps unreliable or sometimes unavailable without warning.
Some scheduling websites don't offer enough analytics or insights on post-performance, making it difficult to make data-driven decisions for future content.
Most of us buy multitool platforms that happen to have scheduling, rather than buying a scheduling tool for its own sake. Especially as most platforms have scheduling capability built in now. I just went through a procurement and here was my shopping list, hope it helps:

Built in UTM builder
Aggregate inbox of all dms/comments across all the platforms I need to manage 
Library section, so I can tag and store well-performing content to reuse
Suggested best time to post based on in-platform behaviour, and adjusted per platform
Ability to save clusters of frequently used hashtags so I don't need to copy and paste them over from a doc or remember them
Ability to plan my content calendar within platform, and send for approval without that being counted as a second user

I've used all the main schedulers and have strong opinions. Please feel free to message me with any specific follow up questions, happy to help x
what is preventing you to integrate AI in your workflow ? 
Our customers heavily use AI on our platform and they love it