Title: Trump New York Civil Fraud Trial Megathread

Post:
Please use this megathread for any news updates regarding the New York Civil Trial against the Trump Organization and Donald Trump. 

As always, please stay on topic, stay civil and follow Reddit's Content Policy and our subreddit rules. Any other discussion may be removed and could result in a ban from the subreddit.

Top Comments:
Better vote or this clown will be your next president and it will be a vindictive baby Trump unhinged on steroids.
>Judge Arthur Engoron rebutted attacks from Donald Trump's attorney Alina Habba against New York Attorney General Letitia James, responding to her opening statement and getting into a debate with the attorney over her claims.

>In her statement, Habba attacked James for saying in her campaign for attorney general that she was going to “get Trump.”

>Engoron, who ruled last week that Trump and his co-defendants were liable for fraud in the attorney general’s civil case against Trump, responded by noting that the defense already tried to dismiss the case claiming that James brought it as a “witch hunt” against Trump.

>“I denied that,” Engoron said, adding that the ruling was affirmed by a New York appellate court. “So Ms. James’ motivations are no longer at issue in this case, are they?”

Bold strategy by annoying the judge on the first day. Let's see how it plays out.
Trump's latest Big Brain™ move: attacking the judge in the case he is about to appear in front of on social media.
Trump already found guilty of "persistent and repeated fraud"

Trial will last until Christmas this year and determine if he's ALSO guilty of:

* Falsifying business records

* Conspiracy to falsify business records

* Issuing false financial statements

* Conspiracy to falsify false financial statements

* Insurance fraud

* Conspiracy to commit insurance fraud
>"Doral would sell for at least a billion dollars. Mar-a-Lago at least a billion,” Habba said. 
“The value is what someone is willing to pay. The Trump properties are Mona Lisa properties,” she added. “That is not fraud, that is real estate.”

Mona Lisa properties. She's comparing land Trump owns to the most iconic, recognizable piece of art in the world. This should be really easy to prove. Considering the Mona Lisa is well, world famous. Just take some pics of Mar-A-Lago and some pics of similarly designed property and ask the average American which one is Mar-A-Lago. That's basically what she's saying. Good for her. I hope the check cleared.
It's still so wild to me that they got away with Fred Trump buying millions in casino chips and never cashing them out as a backdoor way to give money to Trump's failing casino.
Holy shit Alina Habba just referred to him as a "sitting president" and I think she was referring to the fact that he was sitting when she said that.

["We are attacking a sitting president and two of his children and his employees for a statement of financial condition which is frankly worth less than what they are worth," Habba said.](https://abcnews.go.com/US/live-updates/trump-fraud-trial/?id=103642561)
For a narcissist like him, the thought of everyone knowing he has no money bothers him even more than the thought of jail time.
If you look at this and see an innocent man being unfairly prosecuted by a corrupt justice system you just might be a Trump Cultist.