Title: Help - I don't know what to do with my channel

Post:
Hi everyone, honestly, I'm happy you exist because I was hoping for some advice. I'm not in online marketing so I'm not sure what my steps should be.

My sister and I have a new youtube channel. It's not meant to sell anything. It's meant to raise awareness, or maybe the best way to describe it is - to create a movement, something good. Not a political movement but I do want to create discussion, get more subscribers and to attract to our Facebook. We are absolutely new at this. our videos are still basic (We have 6) and I'm now starting to make thumbnails.

I have been on Facebook and Linkedin for years. But things have changed massively and I just don't know where to start and how to get the attention. Posting the videos on Facebook now seems irrelevant because no one sees them. Facebook groups (at least those that I manage to find that are somehow relevant to me -and it's hard to find relevant groups) are filled with a lot of hate. Linkedin - wasn't really meant for these types of videos but I find them important for discussions, bluesky is still new and it's hard to find the relevant people and I'm now about to try TikTok with the relevant hashtags hoping that I'll be able to attract a certain audience there.

But I would like your advice...is there any way to create the shout-out I'm trying to create? To attract people? Am I working wrong with the social media I'm on? Any quality tips that could help me understand how to work here to build something? Thanks for listening :)

Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
It’s awesome that you and your sister are starting a movement, and I totally get where you're coming from. Starting fresh can be overwhelming, especially with the way social media platforms have evolved.

When you're not trying to sell anything but just want to create meaningful discussions and raise awareness, it’s all about finding the right community and crafting your message in a way that resonates. Since you’re focusing on raising awareness and not selling, Instagram is a great choice for sharing your message and building a following.

You can use your Instagram feed to share highlights from your YouTube videos or key insights that support your cause. Use Instagram Stories to engage followers with behind-the-scenes content, polls, or Q&A sessions related to your movement.
Thanks for answering! Would you mind if I ask why Instagram? We're not really picture people and as beginners, it's hard enough to begin editing a youtube video so trying to squeeze a piece into Instagram reels seems excruciating - or am I wrong? Can I take a video and cut parts through Instagram to put it in reels/stories?  I love the idea of polls and Q&A - thank you. It's a great idea to add something beyond the videos but I still don't understand Instagram - Our movement has to do with global issues, would Instagram be the right place for more serious content? Also, how do we engage there?