Title: UK details requirements to protect children from ‘toxic algorithms’ | Platforms that expose minors to harmful online content like hate speech or pornography could face billions in fines.

Post:


Top Comments:
> Bottom line: platforms will soon have to block content deemed harmful in the UK even if it means “preventing children from accessing the entire site or app,” says Ofcom.

So basically viewing anything non-PG in the UK will require your government ID and probably a short video clip of your face. That's batshit insane, and even Australia backed down from that level of stupidity.
The psychological effects of social media feed algorithms on fully formed adult brains is bad enough.


It is AI ultra optimised barrages of information designed to completely bypass any critical rational faculty of human psychology.


We are seeing it reflected in political instability caused by an increasingly polarised electorate. 


Higher and higher numbers of people seem to be feeling utterly convinced of fantastical things on every key issue, with no real evidence. It isn't just our krank uncles anymore.


I think in 20 years we are going to look back on allowing this kind of information environment as an exploitative abuse of human beings and a fundamental mistake.


It will be illegal.
There is no government ID. Most platforms know who you are already based on the cookies and other techniques. The payment processing companies are selling your "anonymised" data to 3rd parties and that's often enough for them to be able to say if you are an adult. The algorithms on various sites can likely work this out by themselves to some degree of accuracy based on the content you consume. They already use this kind of information to target you with more content to watch and adverts that are more likely to get click through. All this legislation will mean is that if such an algorithm identifies you as a child then it can't fill your timeline with toxic content to doom scroll through. Sending impossible beauty standard videos to kids - the types that are literally using filters and all the pre-AI tricks to make people look more attractive than they already are. Studies about such things are showing a massive impact on childrens health. Also, letting kids decide what kids should watch through stochastic systems like an algorithm then you just end up with kids watching the worst of content. Wealthy kid drama videos rather than things that might inspire them to take up arts, crafts, or study a particular subject. You would not want to send your kid to a school that had it curriculum designed by googles youtube algorithm. Why would you even want your child to watch videos on such a brain rotting system? If you want to have 1 in 10 videos of brain rot that is fine. But they should be given suggestions in the same way you'd want them to have role models.