Title: Using AI for fake engagement on social media?

Post:
I know this is frowned upon, but whether you support it or not, businesses and influencers often do this.

For those who do this, has anyone came across any issues while doing so? Such as getting banned, flagged, etc.? I understand that it’s important to do it in batches so it’s not suspicious, but wondering if anyone has any tips or information about this whole process.

This is strictly for research purposes, not planning on doing this personally but genuinely curious on the whole process. 



Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods. Have more questions? [Join our community Discord!](https://discord.gg/looking-for-marketing-discussion-811236647760298024).


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Won't work tho. End of day you need to post better content. If you used fake likes to get started, real humans won't watch it so it's useless
You’ll be shadow banned pretty quickly for boosting your own posts on most socials but if you partition all of the different accounts to run on VM’s then it should work. The thing is once you cross multiple accounts onto the same IP or MAC address the accounts become associated with each other so avoid that and it’ll work.
At some point it will get banned, you can see by the likes and followers that are foreign with barely information so yea it makes you doubt that is not real audience
True. It's a complete waste of time because most people hate it when they read AI generated comments and engagement. They will most certainly leave the page. 
What? If you get fake engagement then the algorithm picks up and proposes more real people to you, fake likes manipulate the brain of a passerby cause he's starting to think "Hm should i know him?". You pulled that "wont work" out of your ass bro it does work, literally top posts on instagram use fake likes fake comments that try to anger you like "I just cant stop watching your posts" with donut glazing gifs in the comments, like bro who the f you fooling you joker fake engagement is the prime factor behind those big accounts
Like i said fake engagement will get your content to more eyes. BUT IF THOSE EYES don't like the content, it won't go anyway.
Root cause is making better content
thats why people spam brainrot, because it attracts alot of kids and destroys their brains in the process to make them crave it.  
People who use fake engagement either boost accounts to later sell it to someone with a good idea for content, or they use it for themselves if they have a good one.  
Top youtubers and influencers also use it. It might seem like they're all good hearted with big communities full of fans, but i often see them used botted comments and engagement early on after releasing something ESPECIALLY if they've fallen off, its very much crazy what the world on the internet is, a one big facade