Title: Can social media become democratized?

Post:
It has become apparent that social media’s biggest problem is that it’s highly undemocratic. What we consume on these platforms, and influences our collective consciousness, is susceptible to the whims of it’s far-right billionaire owner(s), and it’s currently leading to a crackdown on anti-fake news policies & fact checking, the breaking up of neutral and liberal communications and online meeting places, etc. And yet it’s near impossible to turn our back on these platforms, because we have been made reliant upon them for our daily communication or even our livelihoods and the success of our businesses. Even though there’s alternatives available, there’s many reasons why I’m sceptical that these will remain neutral or thrive e.g. being sold to the highest bidder once a platform takes off, owners being aware of mass reliance on established social media’s large number of users to turn a profit, hassle of orchestrating a mass exodus, etc. Government ownership is not a solution either because it would still lead to agenda pushing (whichever way the wind blows at the time). I think the olicharchic nature of social media in itself is a problem considering the integral role these tools have come to play in human life, and I think that any solutions should focus on this aspect. For example, would it be possible to develop an app that transports and integrates one’s profile (including followers) from one platform to the next so as to easily move years of curation and facilitate businesses in spreading their presence across an infinite number of platforms with any manual labor? Or create one specific platform that bundles shared content from a network of smaller platforms of one’s choosing (better than Tumblr or Threads)? Obviously these are all random, flawed ideas but I think it merits discussion.

Top Comments:
If this post [doesn't follow the rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialmedia/about/rules/), please report it to the mods.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/socialmedia) if you have any questions or concerns.*
YES, no one here seems to know about mastodon. Its designed to never be bought, and its designed to stop the network effects that stop people from switching to better platforms. Checkout lemmy, mbin, pixelfed and sharkey as well, they are all cross compatible.
Social media is simply advertising. It’s built on a casino  algorithm to keep you engaged while they take whatever they can. It isn’t democratic in the least. A democratic foundation for any service would include a removal of enticements. Simply look at voter turnout as an example of democratic engagement without addiction.

That said, I really appreciate how capitalist this idea is: allowing the user to take their capital (likes, threads, friends, etc.) from one platform to another —all bundled like a wad of cash. This way the user affects the social media marketplace with their engagement. Right now, we don’t really have this choice. We can only spend our capital at Meta or X. TikTok used to be an alternative, but with Trump’s recent executive order and TikTok’s fawning, it is simply the same as the other two.

How cool would it be if we had choice and could designate our media company like one would do with an advertising firm? So many of us are forced to use these three companies to reach our audiences. Monopolies aren’t democratic in the slightest.
Thanks for posting this. I think about it on a regular basis. I also don't have a solution. But the first step is acknowledging theirs a problem. 

Quite frankly, if you don't see a problem with corporations or rich individuals completely controlling discourse and altering perceptions using technology, you're not thinking at all. 

It's hard to think of a traditional solution. Maybe it will be non traditional.
You're complaint on the most left leaning social media site that still exist. Until Elon buys it too, it cancels opinions like mine.
As long as people have biases I don't think it will be truly democratized. Take example of twitter or X. While it was twitter it was leanning left and governed by left leaning policies. Now it is X and owned by a rightist so you ll see leaning towards right. Not saying this is good or bad just my  thoughts