Title: Facebook has agreed to pay $US52 million ($80 million) to content moderators exposed to graphic and disturbing posts and videos on its platforms.

Post:


Top Comments:
I knew some of the support people at Yahoo! way back who did this. 

No one could take it for more than a week or so at a time and then they'd cycle you back into the regular support group for a few months. 

Mostly they were looking for child porn. It always seemed to me that outsourcing this task to pedophile prisoners would solve a lot of problems. 

This is apparently unethical and wrong.
I'm not sure of some of these commenters have an idea of the kinds of shit these people are seeing, or if they're somewhat extreme in their lack of empathy, or maybe they believe they're hard as a rock, but some of the stuff they're removing from Facebook is going to fuck with you. I've heard from one of these employees, well I'll just briefly summarize before going on that "child pornography" is euphemistic and doesn't really distinguish the kinds of extreme content out there. (trigger warning or whatever, I describe a couple of these) but videos of people being drowned inside locked cages, dogs being slowly crushed to death ("crush videos"), and truly, and I mean brutally violent rape-torture and murder of children, and I mean maximizing and capturing the highest extremes of suffering. Maybe you've seen the most shocking distributed media and shock websites, but beyond mr hands and pain Olympics and purple waffle or whatever there is just this next level where you're really forced to witness the extremes of sadistism and psychopathy. I don't know, I handle fucked up stuff pretty well but I think there needs to be something a bit wrong with you not get really affected by looking at things like that on a regular basis
This is all well and fine, but we've all been exposed to the existentially vile and disturbing Mark Zuckerberg and now I wanna get fucking paid for having to endure that.
People who signed up to look at questionable reported content...are upset that they saw questionable content?

It is pretty much the entire job, it is what you signed up for. You're gonna see porn, racism, death and a ton of petty disputes of people trying to use the report button to win an argument. 

&#x200B;

Ridiculous, pay me and I'll look at death videos all day, I'll look at the worst cartel beheading videos if you pay me. I promise I won't sue you later either.
> It always seemed to me that outsourcing this task to pedophile prisoners would solve a lot of problems. 

I'm sure that would do wonders for their recovery. 🙄