Title: Why New Mexico Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham would likely be an electorally effective VP choice despite her low profile—while Senator Kamala Harris, clear favorite of many professional political analysts, would be a disaster

Post:
The Democratic party’s specific collective goal is determining the optimal candidate(s) for maximizing Democrats’ political strength nationally. There’s basically two “sides” of a candidate’s electoral potential when considering them against many others for public-facing executive positions like any Governor’s mansion or the White House.

Most prominently is the “front-page” side—the way that one’s talents and specific personal qualities can be described (i.e. personality, achieved this or that, served such and such community, energizes supporters, etc.).

Front page qualities are what we tend to be most blinded by, and what we (in my view rather unhelpfully) latch onto as a representative component of our own personal identities.

It’s why so many people to this day react so aggressively to even the mere suggestion that Kamala Harris wouldn’t be ideal...they think that if she’s the best “front page” candidate, that the honest realization that she (Harris) would also carry significant electoral risk is essentially saying she’s “not good enough”.

To them it may surely feel like just another time some privileged white a-hole (usually male but sometimes not), jumps in and takes what rightfully should have been theirs.

But that’s where we lose sight of how important the other side is, the darker side, the more real, sometimes nearly profane side of every candidate. I’ll refer to these as “back page” qualities.

And in this election, that darker issue impacting the calculation of the optimal choice of our nominee’s running mate is unfortunately the most obvious one—race.

Or to be even more disappointingly explicit: skin tone.

The reality of this moment is that in order to make this election the rout of the GOP it needs to be, we have to avoid frightening away too many of the disillusioned heartland types with our “scary” progressive ideals like basic equality and all that...these people are getting ready to take a chance on us just this once because Joe Biden makes our party seem a little less hostile to the kinds of “average” people they consider themselves to be.

No matter how many ethnicities Senator Harris can legitimately claim to be directly connected to through her multicultural life and intellectual talents, there’s only one way those people will be able to perceive her: angry, black, liberal, woman.

Hillary Clinton was brought down by Donald Trump by being merely one of those words. Just imagine the electoral carnage we would have faced if she had to overcome being black and being a woman at the same time. And God help us if she ever publicly declared her support for any truly “liberal” policy objective...truthfully Joe Biden has expressed far more liberal attitudes than Hillary Clinton ever could have dared in our current political climate.

So the people on our side who would actually respond favorably to Harris’ multi-ethnic experience are in areas of the country we’re already going to win in a landslide, and the ones who wouldn’t respond as favorably to her simply because she’s a “black woman” end up not supporting us as much as they otherwise would have if they didn’t have to notice she’s a different color than the one they’re most comfortable with. Harris is basically lose-lose on the “back-page” considerations.

Now contrast that to Michelle Lujan Grisham, current Governor of New Mexico. She’s identified herself quite clearly as of Hispanic ethnicity, so her being VP still does have a real appeal as far as it matters to our side valuing the experience of a genuine “woman of color”, just as much as Kamala Harris is a woman of color as well.

That makes liberals in the blue areas happy that diversity is being represented in the office, so their enthusiasm stays above where it needs to be statistically.

Meanwhile, from the perspective of a timid, deer-like heartland voter wanting to be comfortable enough with Joe to take a chance on Democrats just this once...do you know what they see when they look at Gov Lujan Grisham, and hear her talk on TV?

They see a white woman. She’s not “white”, but she’ll be perceived as white by the very people that would consider that to be appealing to them, and because she’s NOT white, she’ll be perceived as not white by the very people that would consider that diversity to be appealing to them.

She’s basically win-win on race. She gets to be (rightly) revered as a woman of color who represents the value of our diversity in modern America, while making those electoral demographic blocs (who would otherwise be instrumental to our opponents’ efforts to thwart our progress) less inclined to fear what progress might mean for them personally.

She’d be regarded as a likable consensus builder everywhere she went, lauded for so “effortlessly” bringing a “Latina” charm to a lot of the white culture in middle america.

With Harris, it’s the complete opposite—her race would be absolutely the only thing anybody would ever talk about, and the vast swaths of heartland territory—where the ones who are most uncomfortable with all ethnicities other than their own—wouldn’t see a charming appeal of multiculturalism, they would see an “angry black woman” who would (correctly) need to be frequently exceedingly confrontational to overcome their inherent discomfort with her ethnicity in the first place relative to their own.

And when they perceive of her and respond to her as simply “black,” exactly as they did to Barack Obama—who you’ll recall was birthed by a woman unambiguously, 100% white—they’ll be “aggressively confronted” by liberals who argue back (correctly) that she’s in fact very ethnically multicultural.

And merely being factually accurate and as inclusive as possible in our everyday speech? Well, to them that’s just "PC liberals" doing what they don’t approve of, and it pulls them away from our progressive coalition. That puts us right back where we started after we bet everything on a nearly perfect black man, and lost everything because of it. 

>*Don't be fooled into believing the scale of offense matters to people on issues of race. Remember that Barack Obama wore a tan suit once and people (mostly white) lost their fucking minds about it. He was so utterly scandal-free as a black man that it genuinely angered a lot of people (mostly white) that he liked Dijon mustard and occasionally fist-bumped his wife in public. Those issues were clearly the result of our own moral failures as a people, not failures of his as a President.*  

I love Kamala Harris, she’s one of the most talented human beings I’ve ever seen in my life, no question...but there is zero chance she is as squeaky clean as Barack Obama, and even he himself, merely existing as a black man, was enough to create electoral disaster after electoral disaster for Democrats.

Lujan Grisham is racially win-win for Democrats with today’s electorate. Theoretically so would any similarly white-looking woman of color today. Harris is lose-lose for Democrats for the same (unfair) reason. Theoretically so would it be for any similarly black-looking woman of color today.

It’s foolish in any election but most of all this one to believe in any Democratic electoral strategy that doesn’t admit or outright ignores the existence of this dark reality of the American electorate itself.

Front page qualities are important, they are the very values that determine the quality of a person’s moral character. But for something as important as the fate of our entire civil society, our candidates’ back page qualities are ignored at only our own great peril.

Top Comments:
I typically lurk and read other peoples comments because others say what I want to so much better than I do. But I noticed that this post still hasn’t gotten a response and I really do enjoy broadening my horizons. Please, if you have any problems with what I say point them out, I hope to have a good discussion.

Personally, I think you're far overestimating the impact that race, gender, and other intrinsic qualities matter to people that typically oppose Progressive ideals. 

I think you are correct in assuming that people are affected by those qualities but those people won't be voting for Biden and the Democrats anyway. The Democratic platform is, quite frankly, impossible for those people to swallow due to the fact that their preoccupation with those intrinsic qualities is their primary focus.

I personally know absolutely nothing about Michelle Lujan Grisham. I do know a little bit about Kamala Harris. Either way their achievements and experiences in public office and life in general should be of far greater importance what race they are. I don’t think deconstructing people into their intrinsic qualities is fair to the person that has had their existence deconstructed in such a way.

Part of the reason those that don’t care about race, gender, etc. are wary of the Progressive platform lies with the fact that race, gender, etc. ARE promoted to a huge extent. Why should it matter what your race, gender, etc. are? You can't choose those qualities you are born with. They do affect your path through life and give you different life experiences and those life experiences can be tremendously important. But they don't decide the person that you grow into and become, your choices as to how to deal with those things do that. Humans are humans, regardless of the things you are born with, anyone can be a villain or a saint, what really matters are the actions that we decide to take.

Hillary Clinton did not lose because she is a woman. She lost because her and her husband have been systematically demonized by Republican media for decades at this point. She also had a terrible turn of phrase in one of her speeches that hounded her for the rest of the election. Using the term basket of deplorables to refer to Trump supporters was not a good idea in the slightest. It is far too easy to clip that and just repeat the soundbite as a general statement about Trump supporters.

TL;DR 
I think you are overestimating the quantity of people who have race/gender as their deal breaking bias, they do exist but they aren't people that will EVER vote for the Democratic party. Race and gender impart experiences that shape our personalities, but they should not be used to give worth to a person. Hillary did not lose to Trump because she is a woman. She lost because of bad optics.
> in order to make this election the rout of the GOP it needs to be, we have to avoid frightening away too many of the disillusioned heartland types with our “scary” progressive ideals like basic equality and all that...these people are getting ready to take a chance on us just this once because Joe Biden makes our party seem a little less hostile to the kinds of “average” people they consider themselves to be.

> where the ones who are most uncomfortable with all ethnicities other than their own—wouldn’t see a charming appeal of multiculturalism, they would see an “angry black woman”

Can you clarify what you mean here? Are you saying that independents and ex-Trump supporters are not going to vote for a Biden-Harris ticket... because they're sexist, racist, and bigoted? Some 40% of the country? Is that the approach you're trying to take?