Title: CMV: Reddit has devolved to a false dichotomy of left vs right, and has little room for moderates; or rather The_Donald is the exact same type of "safe space" against which they rail.

Post:
r/The_Donald is what I would call the "right" of reddit, and r/politcs the "left" of reddit.  Mods of r/politics widely censor posts that don't fall in line with specific view points.  However, r/The_Donald is just as bad.  I have been banned from r/The_Donald for identifying as a supporter of Bernie Sanders.  I wasn't even disparaging Trump as a candidate, only commenting how how I think the system is rigged. As such, I believe The_Donald is worse than r/politics when it comes to censoring and banning people because as it's side bar states "AfterBerners (Former BernieBots) MUST Assimilate."

They have literally created the safe space where any user who leaves not a conflicting view, but merely identifies themself as an outsider, will be banned.  Thus, while comments are not necessarily censored or removed (they maybe for all I know), the user is banned.  This is the literal equivalent of sticking your fingers in your ears and yelling "LALALALALALALA" so you don't have to hear a conflicting opinion.

The point is, the major subreddits have devolved into a left/right schism, just like Fox News/MSNBC, where when even a reasonable counter point is brought up, it is condescendingly ignored.

To be honest, I'm expecting to be ignored by r/politics, but as an independent who will not vote Hillary, I'm having trouble finding any reason to support a group who is deliberately obtuse when it comes to discussing issues.

Edit: Holy shit, I just searched for a r/independent to see if I can find some like minded individuals, and it has been banned.  

Edit 2:  Lol, comments are being removed here, not because they are censored, but because they violate the side bar rules--specifically, they are agreeing with me.

Edit 3: While I agree with some of you (or rather some of you agree with me) and some of you disagree with me, I want to thank all of you for your genuinely well-though responses.  Though /u/hatewrecked posted the same thing like 20 times, I don't get that.

Top Comments:
> I'm having trouble finding any reason to support a group who is deliberately obtuse when it comes to discussing issues.

/r/The_Donald is not there for an discussing issues.  Its a one sided subreddit - support for Donald Trump and his ideas.  Its like going into a Pokemon subreddit and wondering why you can't talk about [Fallout](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fallout_(video_game)).
When you reddit has 'devolved' into this false dichotomy, you insinuate that it never used to be that way.  That it used to be moderate.  I disagree with that insinuation. 
Obviously if you want to label it a safe space you can do that, but does it fit the spirit of the term? It's easy to make hypocrites out of people semantically, but does it get us closer to the truth of things?

For example, say a vegeterian claims they are against all animal abuse, but they take an FDA-approved drug for epilepsy. That drug was tested on animals, so a very uncharitable person could say "You're a hypocrite since you're also benefiting from animal suffering". It's technically correct, yet also quite misleading. A vegetarian's concern for animal well-being is guaranteed to be much greater than a non-vegetarian, even if they occasionally must make compromises.

The_Donald is supposed to be like one continuous Trump rally. If they permit negative or off-topic opinions, it can't really function as intended. They are *technically* in violation of their own principles. But does that invalidate what they stand for? Does it place them on equal footing with the Left in tolerating free expression?

The bar you're setting for ideological consistency is something only people like religious fundamentalists manage to achieve (e.g. Hasidic Jews). For regular people, compromises are unavoidable. Instead of seeing free speech as this binary thing (either you support it or you don't) think of it as a gradient. Trump supporters are not perfect but their commitment to free speech is far greater than the Left, in spite of the inevitable exceptions.
Just to target one of your points, I would argue that communities like /r/The_Donald must ban outsiders who are not seriously on-board with the subreddit's message because they are massively outnumbered by the people who disagree with them. 

Another subreddit which is often called a "safe space" is /r/hillaryclinton, a sub of 17k subscribers, which is a small number when compared to the ~3.1 million subscribers of /r/politics. It is very tough for a sub to stay on topic when they must deal with routine questions and flak from passersby. The best way to remove this spam on the subreddit is to simply ban the offenders. In the same way, I would expect that /r/Christianity bans users who seem to hail from /r/atheism and/or have come for a debate when it is clear that they are not interested in Christianity.
We need to separate the ideas of "safe spaces" and let's say a headquarters for a candidate.

Firstly a safe space today is often used or referenced to universities - public locations which cater to students with varying perspectives and opinions. This is where the problem arises as a certain section of those views wishes to make the location conform to their views and desires. On reddit this takes the form of r/politics this should be a place for people to trade their political ideas without the fear of being censored or attacked. This has not been the case recently with the sub becoming massively pro sanders and anti anything trump/hillary along with censorship of articles championing those 2.

This is different to the "headquarters" if you will of every candidate. r/sandersforpresident, r/the_donald and whatever hillaries one is were setup from day one with the idea that the sub would only be for their candidate. There's absolutely nothing wrong with this and they are entitled to do so but just understand that it is different to how r/politics was setup and what they claim to stand for. 

r/the_donald is not the "last bastion of free speech" nor should it have to be,that is what r/politics is there for and comparing the two does not make sense
I think the idea of a political moderate is a sort of misnomer, and that's the root of the problem.  Someone who is moderate really just has opinions from both sides, to a more equal level than someone who aligns as right or left wing.  This doesn't mean they aren't right or left wing, merely that our looking at peoples' political positions in aggregate is a flawed concept.  I'm right-wing on gun control, but a communist.  Where does that put me?  Moderate, because I have extremes from both sides?

Truly moderate spaces make up the vast majority of Reddit.  These are the apolitical subreddits, like gaming subreddits, porn subs, etc.  The vast majority of Reddit bans political conversation.  In essence, most of Reddit is a safe space for the apolitical, which would cover moderates, providing moderate as we know it is not just a misnomer for "pulls opinions from both left and right wing".

The problem you seem to have isn't the existence of a safe space for moderates, but rather the intolerance of dissent from current political subreddits.  You'll get the same treatment from any of the candidate-specific subs.

As someone who has been a subreddit moderator and who is familiar with the "Chairman Pao" times you speak of in this thread, I feel like you may be part of a large cross-section of Reddit users who have misinformed opinions about moderation itself.  I know all too well that it if functionally impossible to run a sub that has any sizable amount of users, without there being accusations of favoritism and ideological censorship.  I've seen every default sub accused of ideological-based moderation, and most non-0default subs with any contention to them too.  So it's inevitable that political subreddits of any kind will face these accusations.  Especially with /r/politics, people have been accusatory every time any post is removed for any reason, and there's a huge conspiracy that /r/politics mods are playing favorites, but what the evidence shows is that the /r/politics *users* are playing favorites, and that the minorities of the sub are very upset about that.

In short, it's something expected in candidate-specific subs, and something which is usually never evidenced to be a result of ideological moderation in general political subs, as opposed to the ideological slant of the users.
Why are you complaining about getting banned from THE_DONALD after openly supporting Bernie when it clearly states in the rules of the subreddit that you will get banned? The difference is that THE_DONALD is open about its censorship whereas r/politics pretends it doesn't exist.
If you're looking for other subreddits, then /r/neutralpolitics and /r/politicaldiscussion seem to have less biased censoring than some of the more popular political subreddits. I don't frequent either of those subreddits, so I guess you would have to investigate them yourself to see if they fit your interests.