Title: Results - 2024 r/ModeratePolitics Subreddit Demographics Survey

Post:
After 2 weeks and over 800 responses, we have the results of the [2024 r/ModeratePolitics Subreddit Demographics Survey](https://www.reddit.com/r/moderatepolitics/comments/1e3z2cu/2024_rmoderatepolitics_subreddit_demographics/). As in previous years, the summary results are provided without commentary below. If there is a more detailed breakdown of a particular subset of questions that you are interested in, feel free to ask. We'll see what we can do to run the numbers.

To those of you who participated, we thank you. As for the results... 

### [CLICK HERE FOR THE SUMMARY DATA](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1jkUVPXVRODhK74OqVXRZmVdFiu2523K0I0bvEenOKUU/viewanalytics)

Top Comments:
> Do you believe Israel and an independent Palestine can coexist peacefully?
> 
> Yes: 50.1%
> 
> No: 49.9%

We've solved it, folks! Case closed.
Calling out two that haven't been noted yet: 57% atheist or agnostic is demographically disproportionate for sure, as is libertarians polling at 14%.

But there's a lot more balance here than the rest of Reddit, and for that I'm grateful.
I'm not really sure how to read the ages? 

Majority are either atheist or agnostic, which sort of surprises me, I'm not sure if this is a larger trend or if it's just the reddit effect. 

No one picking "Strongly Approve" for congress is actually pretty funny. 

I wonder how much the Kamala votes would change now that she's the presumptive nominee. 

This sub likes Nikki, not surprising, I liked her too, though I lost a lot of respect for her when she fell in line with Trump. 

The results for Israel and Palestine existing peacefully is a nearly even split, which I found both interesting and funny. 

Anyway, thanks for putting this together.
Well, this survey shows me a few things. But more than anything else it shows me that this would be a great place for BMW, Vuori, Grant Stone, and Titleist to advertise.

We could also start a retro gaming club.
I found the results super interesting.  Some things that surprised me:

1) Income levels are much higher across the board.  I'm solidly middle class, probably on the lower end of that as a government worker, and I'm one of the poorest folks here.  Less surprising when you look at the fact that most people here have a 4 year degree, work full-time in engineering/tech fields, and live in suburban areas.

2) A lot of people here are bi.  Okay, maybe not a lot, but I certainly didn't expect it to be more than double the number of gay folks.  I'd be curious to see the intersection of this combined with age.  I'm in my 40's, so times have definitely changed since I was young, but despite having a diverse friends group starting in high school through today, I can honestly say I've never met a bisexual person.  Even counting online friend groups - people I've met through gaming and message boards I've been a member of for more than a decade.  I need two hands to count the number of trans folks I'm friends with or associate with, and much more for gay friends and family members.  Note this isn't me doubting they exist or anything like that, just commenting on my own experiences and surprise/interest that the number here is so high.  

3) Considering the high level of fawning replies on Harris around here lately, I did find it amusing to see how numbers show no one really wanted her as the candidate at time of survey.  Like, outside of Stacy Abrams and RFK Jr, she's the least favorite choice listed.

4) The solid split on whether Israel/Palestine can be solved caused a verbal chuckle.  Outside the optimism of responses to this question, my foreign policy positions largely reflect those of the sub.

5) On review, I think the "levels of education required to succeed" question isn't great.  I know people in the trades who make far more than people with a 4 year degree ever would, and that isn't a choice on the list other than "high school diploma," despite requiring some education that isn't college.  Not sure how that question could have been worded though.

6) The comments section is amusing.  Apparently this is a conservative leaning sub, specific conservative posters need banned (I guess it's a good thing I'm not listed there), this is a left leaning sub, mods are too tough, mods aren't tough enough, mods need to be tougher, but only against people I disagree with, (as a conservative with multiple bans, I can attest that moderation of us exists).

7) I agree with the calls to modify the meta rule and to reinstate the monthly meta thread (which I don't remember).  Come to think of it, the original post here doesn't mention rule 4 being suspended here....  Was this entire thing a massive secret plot to ban all of us for making meta comments in this thread?!?!? (yes I'm being hyperbolic)

 Thanks for the survey mods, it was interesting to see who exactly is posting around here, and I appreciate the work y'all do.  I know it's not easy!