Title: cmv: The current world trend is an authoritarianism

Post:
As much as I would like to think otherwise, I think current political situation relies on pushing repressive laws, stepping on the freedom of speech and generally nasty policies that make me sad. Some of them include:

Russia: while it wasn’t free long time ago, after start of the war road roller of repressions started working on truly barbarian levels: every notable opposition member was forced to move away from the country, every civilian action that might even imply anti-war position is guaranteed to be discussed in court. Not to mention absolutely nonsensical announcement of LGBT as “extremist organisation”

Australia: made Covid camps comparable to nazis, impressive. Also has a ministry comparable to Roskomnadzor, which new boss Julie Grant made a speech in WEF about “rethinking human rights” to implement censorship on the internet. She’s already doing that by deleting any post that misgenders someone.

Britain: after creating a situation where British are a minority in their own capital, and pretty frequent cases of Muslim killings, British government suppresses people who just want to say they don’t agree with it. Not to mention harassment of Tommy Robinson, who was forced to move away because of the arrest order.

Germany: imagine being so woke that your country harasses AfD as if they were nazis (looking at you Olaf Sholz). And I don’t even like AfD.

France: imagine winning 88 seats but not getting any actual ones in parliament. Poor Le Pen, lmao.

US: apparently in order to be a legal president you just need to announce your frauds as government policies, very convenient. Too bad Nixon was elected too early for that to enjoy. 

Also for fairness sake, the fact that Assange was freed is a surprisingly good news for sure. Don’t remember anything else that was useful for the freedom movement.

Top Comments:
/u/Eri4ek (OP) has awarded 3 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/1eovd83/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_the_current_world_trend_is/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
>Australia: made Covid camps comparable to nazis,

I must've missed this when did Australia gas 12 million of its inhabitants?

>after creating a situation where British are a minority in their own capital, and pretty frequent cases of Muslim killings, British government suppresses people who just want to say they don’t agree with it.

A christian UK citizen did a stabbing, and the reaction was anti muslim riots which were put down by the police, which is the function of the police. What is authoritarian here? Also "British" is a person who lives in Britain. Britains can't be a minority in their own capital. Muslims are as much Britains as anyone else living there. More so when you consider many of the muslims living in Britain come from parts of the former British empire.

>being so woke that your country harasses AfD as if they were nazis

The AFD has historic ties to the literal nazi party. 

[https://www.spiegel.de/international/germany/dangerous-liaisons-the-true-proximity-of-germany-s-afd-to-neo-nazis-a-e69c51d3-4b3c-49d2-8d54-d7b0a19c3f9a](https://www.spiegel.de/international/germany/dangerous-liaisons-the-true-proximity-of-germany-s-afd-to-neo-nazis-a-e69c51d3-4b3c-49d2-8d54-d7b0a19c3f9a)

>France: imagine winning 88 seats but not getting any actual ones in parliament. Poor Le Pen, lmao.

Again Le Pen's father and the party have roots in nazi collaborators [https://www.cbc.ca/radio/day6/episode-336-sidney-crosby-s-concussion-awesome-mix-vol-2-marine-le-pen-captain-canuck-and-more-1.4099052/how-marine-le-pen-made-a-party-co-founded-by-nazi-collaborators-mainstream-1.4099073](https://www.cbc.ca/radio/day6/episode-336-sidney-crosby-s-concussion-awesome-mix-vol-2-marine-le-pen-captain-canuck-and-more-1.4099052/how-marine-le-pen-made-a-party-co-founded-by-nazi-collaborators-mainstream-1.4099073)

them being defeated is a sign of authoritarianism not taking root. If you consider anything left of center to be "authoritarian" then I guess you're right, there has been a resurgence in the global left in the last few months. But to me authoritarianism means violent government suppression of marginalized people.
You are correct in sensing the turn towards authoritarianism, but in all cases save from Russia
and USA the threat of authoritarianism is actually coming from the parties you paint as victims. Read up on the paradox of tolerance to understand that point better.
>Australia: made Covid camps comparable to nazis, impressive.

Six million people were gassed and tortured to death? Because unless there was mass genocide because people refused to get a shot, no, it's not even close to comparable to Nazi concentration camps.
Aussie here.  You really need to work on your sources of information because that's just straight up made up.

Also British neo-Nazis are violently rioting against immigrants and non-white people ATM.  And I'm pretty sure most Londoners are Brits.

AFD are neo-Nazis.
Authoritarianism is always present because it’s the most accessible solution to every problem.

Problems with debt? Change rules so no more debt

Problems with immigrants? Change rules so no more immigrants.

Having an authoritarian means having someone that can change all the rules, and that seems like a good solution when you think rules get in the way of solving problems.

But rules aren’t the problem. The problem is the problem, and dealing with the rules themselves is often a distraction because the problems that need to be solved either can’t be solved, or won’t be solved quick enough

It’s why you can’t just have authoritarian rule everywhere. Because the problems that a govt is meant to solve is very complex, and simple solutions can make the problem worse. Authoritarians often make problems worse, and so they try to limit their damage and focus all blame on that damaged group.

If a few people are suffering but the majority are fine, then the authoritarian has technically succeeded, while we all can say they’ve only created a temporary ‘solution’ that looks very much like the problems we fought wars to end
As a Brit, you could've mentioned the Labour Party stalking its population with AI

And while I do agree that the rise of Authoritarianism is the general world trend, there are notable exceptions

Ih the last Turkish election, president Erdogan, a highly Authoritarian leader, was actually quite a bit closer to losing the election than before

In Estonia, there has been a trend of the state digitalising, and increasing democratic participation in decision making via the use of e-voting, giving more power to the people, and repressing their say less

Volt Europa, a pan-European collection of parties, is growing in popularity, and advocates for the increased democratisation of Europe and the reduction of European bureaucracy, and supports securing rights for women in countries which oppress them (notably Iran)

Opposition to Lukashenko, the Belarusian dictator, is growing 

Rojava, a Kurdish Socialist somewhat country, performed excellently when fighting ISIS, and still continues to function as a society to this day. It operates with Anti-Authoritarian, Direct Democracy.

In 2019, homosexual acts were legalised in Botswana, reducing government oversight of their personal lives.

In 2017, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Malawi, Eswatini, Zambia, Uganda, and Rwanda legalised weed, reducing government oversight of people's personal lives.

In 2021, Angola decriminalised same-sex relationships, reducing government oversight of people's personal lives.

In 2023, Mauritius decriminalised "sodomy", reducing government oversight of people's personal lives.

In The US, the Libertarian Party has had some success. Though it has some decline in popularity, it is still America's third most popular party, and received over 1% of the national vote in the 2020 election. For an American third party, that is extremely good. And the party staunchly opposes Authoritarianism.

So, the world's not all Authoritarian
putting aside the fact that it seems like most of your examples of authoritarianism just so happen to be some kind of legal action against one ideological position,

is lack of freedom of speech, censorship on the internet, are these things all that comprise "authoritarianism"?  what is authoritarianism?  the government restricting what they tolerate you saying?  do you being able to say whatever you want actually really change anything about how you live your life?  does it mean anything?  

you hint in france that "authoritarianism" is preventing a party from taking power.  so perhaps authoritarianism is just....lack of power?  being in a position of weakness compared to something powerful?  so then.....wouldn't things always have been authoritarian?  since we stopped living as hunter gatherers?
I think the pendulum is just swinging back.

And even though it looks bad, is it really worse than the Authoritarian states of the past?

A semblance of DEMOCRACY is still in play, even if a large chunk of the citizenry can't quite handle the extreme progress and are looking for more conservative leadership.