Title: CMV: Feminism is not synonymous with egalitarianism, but is instead a sexist, man-hating, hypocritical, double standard wielding, dishonest, free-speech hating, nebulously incoherent ideology, for which there are very few actual moderates, and we should collectively disavow it as a society

Post:
**This is a kind of CMV super-topic, please feel free to read only one category, and I've separated categories by their bold headings**

Okay, I know, lots of claims here in the title that I'm sure anyone here is going to try very hard to point out are not perfectly connected to my points, but I am pretty sure I'll be getting to all of them at some point. I'm going to be outlining as broad a range of ideas held and behaviours I've seen manifested through feminism, and as such, for purely practical reasons, I would appreciate it if you could try to keep your responses to just one or two categories, just so I have enough time to address everyone, because this is quite a long post. You don't have to, of course, but I'm probably going to prioritize responding to more narrowly contained arguments (and feel free to just read one category, by the way). Okay, let's begin.

**Rape Culture**

I wanted to start with the topic of rape because I think it is the subject for which there is the most legitimate complaint and worry, and I also think it's really the foundation on which modern feminism is laid. It's quite important as a narrative point, but I believe that the general arguments are, top-down, built on faulty reasoning and research.

We've all heard, I'm assuming, that 1 in 5 women have been raped on college campuses. Now, this is a myth, but feminists are generally split on this issue; some of them don't know or think it's a myth and proceed on that premise, while the rest say that it's well known that it's a myth within the feminist community, and that it's used as a means to discredit the movement despite the fact that it's been disavowed. I want to get to both perspectives here.

So first of all, if you didn't know, it is a myth. This idea is based on a 2007 study [(Source)](https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221153.pdf) that polled 5,446 undergraduate women from two universities by an online survey. Men's answers were also omitted from the study. As has been pointed out countless times, that kind of sample size is not reliable enough to extrapolate to a larger population, and, of course, with this kind of sample size, you could just keep repeating the test until you had gotten a conclusion that was palatable. The survey had, by the researchers' own standards and admission, a low response rate, and did not specifically designate their 19% findings to sexual intercourse involving penetration, but more broadly defined their accusations under the heading of attempted or completed sexual assaults. This survey also included phrasing that was open to interpretation, such as asking if the woman had received sexual contact with someone while they were "unable to provide consent or stop what was happening because you were passed out, drugged, drunk, incapacitated, or asleep?"

Now, I understand that this seems fairly straightforward, and that anyone finding fault with claims coming from this might be viewed as a kind of monster, but I would ask you to look a little deeper into how actions being described by these claims could be manifested. I'm positive that there are men out there that drug women or get them drunk to take advantage of them; no one is denying this, but for a non-trivial number of people, as Christina Hoff Sommers points out, getting a little bit drunk or high is a normal precursor to sex for many people, both men and women. Even if you disagree with this premise that the normalcy of it makes it healthy or otherwise okay, the question still implies that there is a predatory relationship necessarily at play here, when that's simply not the case. It's obviously not the case, because the man can be more drunk or high than the woman, and this question would still count that behaviour as a sexual assault committed by that man against the woman. All of these issues I've pointed out so far are problematic, but there are actually deeper architectural problems with this study and the claims it espouses, but since they apply to the subset of feminists that have disavowed this study, we will handle them next.

So, onward to those women who believe that this claim is false, but that the basic tenets of the claim are still valid, and who often point to more modern (and almost always smaller) numbers regarding the issue of male perpetrated rape. First of all, and I don't want to just blow past this point, why should we trust any new numbers being put forward by these feminists? Feminist researchers have been demonstrated time and time again to be either uniformly dishonest or incompetent as academics, and the very few which seem to operate with integrity, like Christina Hoff Sommers, are largely disavowed by the broader movement. This research is almost never coming from a trustworthy source, and most feminists who do accept that this claim is false do very little to admonish or distance themselves from those lies; there is certainly very little in the way of accepted movements within feminism to discredit these falsehoods. And by the way, if you think your new study is somehow more reputable because it was conducted by a government organization, I would point out that the original study we've been discussing was conducted by the National Institute of Justice, which is a division of the Justice Department. These feminists are everywhere, and they are the very antithesis to unbiased researchers, and anyone questioning their insane ideologies in a professional or academic setting are cast out like lepers (more on that later).

Let's move on though. There is a wide range of statistics that are generally touted about male on female rape, but certainly that statistic gets lower when you look at rape that has been actually reported to the police or prosecuted. I don't want to just not leave a number here, so I will say that in 2012, the Bureau of Justice data indicates that 0.13% of women age 12 and up were raped -or- sexually assaulted [(Source)](https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/cv12.pdf). The obvious answer to this is that most rapes aren't reported, and we will get to that, but I want to point out that this number might actually be too high; we simply don't know what the real numbers are. 

The bottom line is this. We are in an unfortunate situation in our society in that we just have no good way to accurately and reliably measure this crime. There are political interests surrounding this problem, but the problem itself is apolitical; that we either need to decide to be, let's say more inclined, to believe the accuser or the accused, because in most cases all we have to go on are two competing eyewitness testimonies. The proponents of this idea that 'most rapes go unreported' are completely throwing out the concept of due process; people off-handedly declaring that they had been raped are not giving the accused even the benefit of being an eyewitness in that case, so it should not be assumed to be true. It shouldn't be assumed to be true or untrue regardless of whether you have both people testifying, but it is an even less credible claim under those conditions.

Let's look a little closer at self-reporting here, because it is really central to this whole issue. First of all, feminists (let's say 'some feminists' to be fair) have been shown time and time again to be dishonest for the purpose of furthering their cause. For this reason alone I do not believe that everyone filling out an online survey is going to be reporting their experiences accurately. Compound this with the fact that if you are using a survey to extrapolate from voluntary participants to a larger population, you are far more likely to receive answers from people who have something to report than those who have no experience to contribute. More to the point though, and this, I think, is the main thing, is that there is just no consensus on what rape means in society today. Feminists will frequently point out, based on my experience with them, that their current study specifically defines rape as being penetrative, but actually that's not the problematic component of the definition, consent is. We used to have a very solid and useful definition, where consent had to be specifically withdrawn to consider an encounter to be a rape. In other words, if the woman says "stop", or "get off me", and the man proceeds to penetrate her, this was rape. Now, we actually have a subsection of society which believes that consent needs to be explicitly expressed in order for sex to be considered consensual, and therefore not rape. I don't want to spend too much time on this, but this is, from a legal standpoint, from a rational standpoint, and from the standpoint of simply knowing what it's like to be human, absolutely absurd. For one thing, this kind of active consent is infinitely divisible; it's not as if the claimants believe that if you ask for consent with a woman once, you are unable to commit rape against them unless they specifically retract that consent, they don't seem to have any definition at all for the frequency with which you need to request consent. By the way, this completely exonerates women from any kind of responsibility. It is implied here that only the man is responsible for asking consent at any given point, regardless of the fact that consensual sexual encounters very often involve both people alternatively leading that engagement in some way. More to the point though, I think, this idea of active consent is completely divorced from any kind of notion of how people interact in the real world. Let me be clear though; if you are making out with a woman and stop to ask her if she wants to have sex with you, you will ruin the mood so fast your head will spin. Anyone telling you that that is because the woman just wasn't that into you to begin with kind of have their head up their ass.

So, a bit of a tangent, but this is the point; many people that self-report on rape have different definitions of what consent entails, one of those definitions leads to interpretations based purely on how much they enjoyed the sexual experience after the fact, and that is generously affording them the doubt that they wouldn't even report experiences that they did enjoy, did want, and did nothing to prevent, as rape. No matter which way you cut it, self-report is simply not reliable. It's inherently unreliable.

I actually don't want to write a whole book on this subject, but there is just so much to say on it, so I'm going to have to move on here from the problems inherent to the statistical analyses, to broader problems with this interpretation of a "rape culture".

Now, despite all of this, I'm fairly confident that rape is perpetrated far more often by men, against women, than it is by women against men. This is really the mainstay of the modern feminist ideology. Make no mistake about this either, this is not purported to be anything outside of a kind of mixture of inherent evil and cultural allowance for men to do this sort of thing, hence the monikers "rape culture", "toxic masculinity", and so on. I'm not saying this is not a problem in society, but there I would like to point out a third component, outside of this inherent nature or cultural permissiveness, which is not only hugely important, but also entirely antithetical to those claims, because it explains the disproportionate representation completely, and that is *opportunity*. Why on Earth does everyone just assume that there must be something built into men that is disturbed, when we have this very simple and obviously relevant component to consider in the equation? The vast majority of romantic relationships are heterosexual, both in the US and across the world, and on average, men are substantially larger and stronger than women. Not only this, but defining rape as penetrative obviously introduces a statistical bias, and for more than one reason. The plain fact of it is that whether or not women are more inclined to rape than men, they are simply unable to fulfill that tendency in most relationships, because they'd be physically overpowered (and this is discounting the fact that they can't penetrate men to orgasm, and that men would lose their erection if they sufficiently disliked a sexual experience).

And in fact, the statistics show that where this disproportionate opportunity no longer factors in, the trend does seem to indicate that this claim may have some real substance to it. 

According to the CDC's *National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survery* [(Source)](https://www.cdc.gov/violenceprevention/pdf/cdc_nisvs_victimization_final-a.pdf) 44% of lesbians experience rape or sexual assault by their intimate partners, compared to only 26% of gay men. Now, while I would obviously hold this study up to the same scrutiny I've previously outlined, I am inclined to at least give it the benefit of the doubt that it's internally consistent in how it measures these two groups, and in other words that the proportions should, or at least may, be accurate. This would seem to suggest that when the element of opportunity is virtually leveled out, women are actually more rape-y than men, which is just a little bit antagonistic, as an idea, to the hypothesis that men are in some way evil, or permitted to perpetrate evil in society, rather than looking at rape for what it is, which is an evil that exists as a probably very small human aberration, and which is gendered because of opportunity alone.

Now, if you move upward from this point, to a broader societal context, you really begin to see these cultural biases manifest themselves in a way which is quite toxically aggressive to both men as well any sense of genuinely pursuing the truth on feminist claims, and examining the actual evils being perpetrated by men or women. 

Women, and even men, can enjoy a perfectly healthy social and professional life after repeating, in public or at work, these dubious rape claims. You can just say, openly, that we live in a rape culture, that men are rapists, and that 1/5 women are raped on college campuses. Now, think about that, and consider that James Damore was very recently fired from Google for suggesting that women might be more agreeable and neurotic than men, a claim which is also backed by research, even if that research is admittedly a little bit controversial. So, to recap, you can tell your friends at work that men are rapists and face absolutely no social ostracization, but if you say that women are more likely to be agreeable or a bit more moody than men, you will not only lose your job, but face a public smear campaign by the press, egged on by feminists. Are we still pretending that there is no bias at play here in your ability to research or report on the evils of men versus the evils of women? How do you even claim that men are responsible for any kind of systemic wrongdoing, when dissenting views are so obviously suppressed at every level, infrastructurally and socially, in our society? We don't have a debate or discussion here, this is a monologue, and people who don't tow the party line are cast out as bigoted pariahs.

You have only to look at Matt Damon's s on the #metoo movement to see the truth of this claim. Those that don't agree, even with the particulars of feminist claims, are wrong by virtue only of the fact that their statements might be hurting victims. This is our standard for the truth now; who it affects.

And by the way, for those feminists who so often like to point out that complaints against feminism are actually being launched against "radical feminists", I would point out that you would be very hard pressed during that outbreak on twitter of the #NotAllMen hashtag, that you really couldn't find any "moderate feminists" speaking out in support of this movement, despite the fact that they themselves believe that the extremist minority shouldn't be put forward as representative of the larger group. Instead, they largely just belittled these people for either diverting attention away from the problem, or for being outright rape apologists. So, to be clear, we shouldn't criticize feminism based on it's radical elements, but it's okay to do this with men. And by the way, being a man isn't an ideology you subscribe to; you can actually just drop feminism, and it does imply a certain subset of beliefs, whereas being a man does not. And to those who will inevitably point out that saying men are rapists doesn't mean that *all* men are rapists, you should be content then with people pointing out that feminists are sexist.

Finally, and this really is the last point we'll talk about on this particular subject, let's take a very brief look at the Christmas classic *Baby, it's cold outside*. The very perfect example of how to demonize male sexuality. Feminists often like to point to this as being a good example for how "rape culture" actually isn't an idea that's antagonistic towards men, and that the song demonstrates that women are very often expected to portray a kind of unwillingness to sleep with men even when they want to, making interpretations of what women want quite difficult. And, to give this claim it's due, there is a grain of truth to it, but I don't think we should forget the fact that relationships very, very commonly begin with a kind of negotiation. What, after all, is the purpose of asking someone out on a date except to convince them that you would be a good romantic partner for them? In other words, people don't always begin being equally ecstatic about getting romantically or sexually involved with one another, and, in particular if you're a man, you have an implicit responsibility to approach a woman and convince her, through humor, charm, or whatever other applicable talents or positive traits you bring to the table, that she should date you and sleep with you. This is okay, by the way. It's just part of normal and healthy sexual and romantic pursuits. You may occasionally have a woman who knows right away that she wants to be romantically and sexually involved with you, but if that were the standard, we just wouldn't need dating at all.

**Overt misandry through gaslighting in mainstream, "moderate" feminism**

I will keep this section brief, but I at least wanted to mention, in passing, that I am just sick and tired of the gaslighting that's mainstreamed in feminism regarding their own very overt titling system. Terms like "toxic masculinity", "rape culture", "(white) male privilege", "manspreading", "mansplaining", "manslamming", "failsons", "the patriarchy", and slogans like "the future is female" are all so obviously and clearly sexist and rooted in misandry. I'm tired of hearing that these phrases, while being at face value sexist, actually have deeper and more nuanced definitions that are not sexist (they still are, but more complicatedly so). Just admit that they're sexist and resentful toward men. Look, if I started referencing things like "black murder culture" or "the negro conspiracy" and started explaining to you that actually these were campaigns designed to help black people become less violent by recognizing that we, as white people, actually permit these problems by not being assertive enough, and that actually we aim to make society better for both groups through this ideology, I would correctly be called out for being a racist. It's the same thing. IT'S THE SAME THING. I don't believe that this movement just doesn't understand how it's vaguely hostile titles for all their ideologies could be perceived as sexist. I don't believe that this clearly sexist nomenclature is in any way accidental. And I don't believe their underlying principles are really that much less sexist than they appear at face value, which is quite a feat when you consider how blatantly fucking sexist they sound.

**The wage gap**

Here, we have another persistent myth where the feminist community is split on their reading of it. Again, the 77 cents on the dollar claim is still held by some feminists, and regarded by the rest, who know it's a myth, to be a kind of misdirection of their real concerns when this claim has already largely been disavowed. 

So, first of all, as with the 1 in 5 myth regarding rape on college campuses, it hasn't actually been disavowed by the larger community, and there appears to be no internal movement to correct this false information.

For those who hold to it, the reason it's false is quite simple. This percentage comparison is based on all wages earned between the genders making no distinction between career or position, it's just a bulk comparison. So, of course, if more women are care providers for the elderly rather than being, say, engineers, this will be reflected in this data. Different professions pay differently, and men and women are not equally represented in all fields. 

If you accept that, and still see a much smaller wage gap, well, you're then not accounting for well-documented averages regarding life decisions, such as starting a family, the willingness to work longer hours and vacation less, the likelihood of asking for a raise, etc., and when you do account for those differences between genders, that gap narrows to nothing [(Source)](http://www.aei.org/publication/there-really-is-no-gender-wage-gap-there-is-a-gender-earnings-gap-but-paying-women-well-wont-close-that-gap/). Because of course it does, because it's illegal to pay women differently for the same work. In point of fact, men are now being systemically discriminated against for positions. According to a 2015 Cornell study [(Source)](http://news.cornell.edu/stories/2015/04/women-preferred-21-over-men-stem-faculty-positions), there is a 2:1 hiring and tenure preference for women as STEM faculty in the U.S. This is overt and measurable discrimination against men, and we're still at the whim and frenzy of feminists complaining that there are systemic biases against them.

Look, if you don't think there is anything biological or inherent in women that precludes them from excelling in their professions and climbing the corporate ladder, I would suggest that you merely consider the fact that in 2017, only 17% of startup founders were women [(Source)](https://techcrunch.com/2017/04/19/in-2017-only-17-of-startups-have-a-female-founder/). Maybe the problem isn't that men and sexism and institutional bias are holding them back, maybe women, on average, just don't have the desire or will power to reach the top of the professional pyramid. Also, am I not allowed, or is it too rude, to point out that the women who point out these biases so often come from professions like journalism, and academic fields like gender studies, or some variant within these arenas? How often do you see women in engineering or mathematics, or as CEO's, talking about the gender pay gap? I guess that's not very fair since there are just so few of them to poll. To be fair, I know that this does happen in those fields, but it's certainly a smaller portion of the outspoken collective voice, and despite my tone, I have nothing but respect for women in those fields; the ones I've met have been extremely intelligent, articulate, hard-working, and capable, but remember, we're talking about averages and statistics here, not the right side of the bell curve.

Now, feminists who now disavow the wage gap have started talking about what they call a 'gender earnings gap', which basically boils down to what we all know and accept; that women, on average, pursue different careers and have different career values. The solution to this 'problem', and I am not ready to accept that it is a problem, is generally to promote, either through culture or fiat, a concept generally referred to as equality of outcome.

Now, when you're talking about equality of outcome for women specifically, what you mean is that you at least want to approach equal representation of women in different high earning fields. One way to do that is through either punishing or rewarding corporations for fulfilling diversity quotas, which is obviously discriminatory, especially when you allow for the idea that less women are competing for those roles then men. Supposing you have the most innocent interpretation of a solution for this problem though, that we should change culture, art, and education to encourage more women to pursue these high-paying fields and to care about family less. Well, there's nothing wrong with that, but when you say 'we need to do this', that's just not the case. Feminists, and often women in general, have a vested tribal interest in pushing women into the very highest paid fields, but I just don't think there's any premise to promote that this idea is good for both men and women. I'm not saying it's bad for men, but if it's something you feel is important, and you want to pursue, well that's your pet project, and no one is stopping you from trying to reach those ends. I'm of the opinion that both men and women should pursue whatever careers they want, and that actually money isn't the highest priority for everyone, as is reflected in their career choices. If you want to culturally shift women's value priorities, that's fine; but I just haven't seen any premise that would suggest that this is an equal priority for men and women when it's predicated on a specifically gendered tribal interest, and also when it's pursued with at least the appearance of quite a bit of hostile resentment toward men and the successes they've achieved.

Beyond that, what is often being put forward, the more sinister alternative, is equality of outcome specifically through corporate incentives or punishments. That corporations should be forced to have an equally representative diverse workforce is absurd for the reason that Jordan Peterson has pointed out; that group identity is infinitely divisible, making this solution profoundly untenable and inherently unstable. 

**The patriarchy**

Look, I don't accept this idea that you can say something exists if you can't even kind of define it. I think that that's a fairly reasonable position to take. Feminists can't even define *what it is* they think is permeating their society. I've brought this up in slightly more extreme terms before on this subreddit, and have appropriately curtailed my severely negative view of it, but I think the fundamental issue with this claim remains. I follow Christopher Hitchens' reasoning on this general type of claim when he says "That which can be asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence." And this certainly applies to assertions which are as nebulous as the claim that we have some kind of mystical oppressive patriarchal spiritual force permeating our society.

Proponents of this claim will say that it's existence is obvious by the fact that we have things like 'the glass ceiling', 'the gender wage gap', etc. And to them I would say that this is not obvious at all. To be clear, 'the patriarchy', as far as I understand it, is not as straightforward as being synonymous with institutional sexism against women; claimants would like to assert that there are more complex moving parts involved, and point to the historical role of women in society, or the lack of diversity in leadership position. I'm sorry, but for all we know, all of those supposed outcomes of this "patriarchy" are unrelated, or at least not related in the manner which is being suggested, and it is all suggestion, because anything as clear as an assertion regarding this term has apparently been abandoned as a goal, and what remains is so vague as to be functionally meaningless. If the patriarchy was real, people should have no difficulty in at least giving some kind of definition, even if it's imprecise, but they can't; every single feminist I've asked directly to define it has only ever pointed to it's alleged causes or effects, yet they all firmly believe in it's oppressive existence.

This is the real crux of the issue; this vague interpretation of a kind of sexism which is conscious, subconscious, biological, historical, infrastructural, institutional, plus who knows what else, has built within it a presumption of guilt. Anything that happens which seems vaguely gendered, or just negative even, can be attributed, by the feminist, to the patriarchy, because they don't even know what it is, making it therefore unfalsifiable as a claim.

Even though the current impacts of the patriarchy are undefined, feminists often outline the historical precedence surrounding the oppression of women as if this alone is proof of a currently oppressive power structure, so let's examine that. 

This idea of group victimization can really be broken down into two categories. The first being that women were the subjects of a greater degree of victimization of men throughout history, and I'm not sure if anyone believes that, but is so, that would be so absolutely and measurably untrue as to be absurd, so unless someone would like to take up the mantle on this, I'm not really going to waste my time with it. The second claim, that men were by and large the perpetrators of victimization throughout history was quite true. 

This is kind of a weird point of contention to hold onto if you can't demonstrate how it currently affects people. In other words, I disagree with the premise that we should be made to somehow pay for the sins of our ancestors regardless of whether or not their actions currently negatively impact the group that was originally targeted. Which is not the case anyway, since your claim is really only that men abused everyone and women did not.

Even if we accept this premise as being somehow legitimate as a complaint though, that's really only half of the story. Yes, men in the past were assholes, but they also fought and died and innovated for literally everything we have today.

Look, I understand that it's unpleasant to think of your female ancestors as being prevented from entering some professional fields if they wanted to, in the probably rare case that they did, but there is an element to this spiteful recognition of a historical patriarchy that just strikes me as astonishingly ungrateful and historically ignorant. The very thing you're fighting for, upward mobility, is a cause that countless men, not women, have fought and died for, and all throughout history. 

It wasn't women either going out into the American frontier and stabbing bears, peeling off their fur so that more people could manage to go out and peel the pelts of these monsters that wanted to rip their collective throats out. It wasn't women that were burrowing into the bowels of the Earth, breathing in coal dust and waiting for the very planet to rumble below them and engulf them in an eternal darkness, just so we could run a few trains across the country. Women, again, didn't erect the skyscrapers we see all around us, didn't build the bridges (and generally die in the process). It wasn't women going out by the thousands into the meat grinder of World War I, sitting in a wet ditch for months just so they could bayonet some stranger in the throat before getting stuck in a three foot deep puddle and wait to die.

I don't want to be a dick about that, but let's be real here, there's a reason there was no global feminist movement back when being a man largely meant toiling away in the dirt your whole life, unless you were conscripted to fight for your king. Now that we have unprecedented prosperity, you hear all of the grievances. Am I wrong here? That's kind of like when you were younger and you split up chores with your sibling, and then they sat around while you worked on, say, the kitchen for an hour, and then when you were on the last plate, demand that you switch with them. If you really wanted equality, you'd go into the forest and build a metropolis and government and develop new technologies, all out of nothing, and fight and die for what you believed in until you could rest and enjoy everything you've accomplished. But you don't really want that, you want to complain about not being taught to desire a CEO position enough for you to get off your ass and work for it, withing a society and company that the group you identify so strongly with didn't really build.

And listen, I don't actually think I should take pride or shame in the actions of my male ancestors, but if we're going to play this group identity game, and connect your personal identity through history like that, this is the other side of it. I also don't think women should be deprived of any opportunities, but let's be realistic about how resentful about "unfairness" we're allowing ourselves to get here.

Lastly, as intersectional feminists will tell you, a person's victim status is a function of various intersecting forces at play against them, which, you can imagine, can become a little bit complicated to accurately identify. Let's make it simple though. I don't want to spend a lot of time discussing homelessness, bias in the legal system, etc., but to those of you that think it's so much easier to be a man than it is to be a woman, how do you square that up with the fact that men in the Americas are 3.6 times more likely to kill themselves than women? [(Source)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gender_differences_in_suicide) Or that, if you want to look at victimization, men comprise 77.8% of the homicide victims in the U.S.? [(Source)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homicide_statistics_by_gender)

The point I want to make with these is not that men are deserving of praise or pity, just that if you really want to play this group identity politics game between men and women, I don't think you're going to win your argument along really any metric without completely ignoring huge portions of history, statistics, and what it means to be victimized or deserving of status and wealth.

Let's do a couple of quick ones next.

**Manspreading**

A great example of how the world is ergonomically built for short people (i.e. women), and how these people don't seem to understand what it means (a) to have balls, and (b) to be tall enough that your knees are pressed tightly against immobile steal grates if you want to pull your legs in on the bus.

**Mansplaining**

Another way in which feminists try to suppress men's opinions in any absurd way they can.

**Manslamming**

Assaulting men to make some kind of point?

**Gender Identity**

There are only two genders. This law that Canada is now facing on imposed speech regarding pronoun choices is just absolutely absurd.

First of all, just so you know, the idea of a "gender role" as distinct from a "sex role" was originated by Dr. John Money, in 1965, who conducted his studies on 'gender fluidity' with a boy named Bruce Reiner (later David), who wound conduct experiments instructing Bruce's brother Brian to regularly thrust sexually toward Bruce while he laid down on his floor, and while Money watched. Money renamed Bruce "Brenda" and forced him to wear dresses, but unfortunately, the therapy never really took, and Bruce, renaming himself David later on, eventually killed himself by overdosing on antidepressants. [(Source)](http://www.returnofkings.com/13173/the-forced-transsexuality-of-david-reimer)

So, you know, maybe this theory isn't predicated on as sound a philosophical basis as we are led to believe? This is the same as with the theory of white male privilege, as it is with everything else promoted in feminism, it's just profoundly unhinged from scientific, statistical, or rational thought.

Let's ignore the history for a moment though and focus on the current social constructionist argument for gender fluidity. A lot of people seem to forget this, but being a trans person meant something quite different not ten years ago than it means today. The claim that was initially asserted was that gender was different from sex (studies suggest quite strongly that these two ideas do not vary independently from one another, but I digress), that gender was a social construct, and that if you were trans, you identified as having the mind of someone belonging to the other binary gender.

Let's gloss past the sexist implications of this claim (because they're kind of sexist, I would say, mostly against women, who largely don't seem to mind it), the existence of a social construct in this theory is a non-trivial component. There are only two social constructs for gender, so the idea that you somehow belong to a third, fourth, fifth, etc., social construct is not just incorrect, it's incoherent as a claim. It would be equivalent to answering the question of what colour your hair was with "three". So what is gender if it's not that binary social construct? Well, that's easy, it's your personality. You don't think you perfectly fit into the category that is typically called "male" or "female"? Well guess what, welcome to being a person, no one aligns themselves completely one way or another, that doesn't give you the right to start making incoherent assertions about the type of speech people are allowed to use around you. 

The idea too that these people are advocating for trans rights is absurd. Gender fluid people are not trans by any conventional definition of that word, and they've clearly done far more to harm the legitimacy of that movement (which, if we're being honest, was a little bit questionable to begin with) then they have any good. I know I've been a bit harsh here with trans people, I think it's a tiny bit irrational, but ultimately I think they should do whatever they want without, hopefully, facing discrimination. I've also met trans people that I absolutely respect and wish the best for. These gender-fluid, third gender, or whatever else new entrants into that field, however, I have no respect for whatsoever. They're attention whores with no valid claim to their own gender identity, and who are actively hurting actual trans people while damaging free speech protection, and as such deserve all of the collective ire we can muster up for them.

**Free speech**

Just a small addendum here; I felt I would be remiss if I didn't at least mention it, but feminists have more or less taken a staunch stance against free speech. Most recently with Bill C-16 in Canada, but they also make active efforts to shut down and smear the events held by people like Jordan Peterson, Milo Yiannopoulous, Cristina Hoff Sommers, Cassie Jaye, etc. 

They do everything they can to suppress entire categories of what constitutes humor, they clamp down on artistic expression by claiming "cultural appropriation" (which should be a topic in it's own right, but I'm getting lazy), and endorse 'safe spaces' that outright ban certain topics of discussion. Their attempts to suppress these alternative ideas and modes of expression often escalate to violence. They are the modern equivalent of thought police; all they need is a slightly greater degree of power to make the comparison truly apt, but we're not far off. 

Their promotion of ideas like "blaming the victim", while fairly innocuous on the surface, speak to a deep-seated tendency to suppress any views that don't fit their narrative, and take truth claims as being valid or invalid depending specifically on the person making them. 

There is a real and palpable taboo in our society surrounding calling out the absurd ideas being propagated by the extremist left, and I really think these views need to be called out for the bullshit they're comprised of so that we can all just start trying to work together here.  


Top Comments:
Ok, I pick Rape Culture

>Rape culture is a sociological concept used to describe a setting in which rape is pervasive and normalized due to societal attitudes about gender and sexuality. **Behaviors commonly associated with rape culture include victim blaming, slut-shaming, sexual objectification, trivializing rape, denial of widespread rape, refusing to acknowledge the harm caused by some forms of sexual violence, or some combination of these**. The notion of rape culture has been used to describe and explain behavior within social groups, including prison rape and in conflict areas where war rape is used as psychological warfare. Entire societies have been alleged to be rape cultures

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rape_culture

So rape culture isn’t just about the absolute number of rapes, but about how society reacts to them. Does it dismiss rape claims? What about defending rapists due to their [football]( https://www.rawstory.com/2013/03/cnn-grieves-that-guilty-verdict-ruined-promising-lives-of-steubenville-rapists/) or [swimming]( https://nypost.com/2016/06/06/stanford-swimmer-gets-jailed-only-6-months-for-raping-unconscious-coed/) abilities? Or claims of [sexual assault]( https://www.buzzfeed.com/remysmidt/trump-again-dismisses-grab-them-by-the-pussy-comments?utm_term=.iqR2VWZ0ZX#.quJ6NZX1Xk) because that’s just how men talk?

These are examples of the things that make up rape culture. That the society is desensitized to it, and it’s ‘normalized’, rape is just a thing and then we forget about it. 

Nowhere do we see the normalization of rape more, than **male prison rape**. [That’s used as a joke for example](https://goodmenproject.com/featured-content/the-rape-joke-everyone-tolerates-tp/). Why is that ok? Prison rape is not ‘part of the experience’ or ‘to make it more frightening’. It’s a failure as a society. A society chooses to incarcerate someone, to remove their liberty yet refuses to kept them safe? That’s disgraceful. And jokes about it are not funny.

No matter what you think, prison is a rape culture at the least. It’s pervasive, and normalized by the outside. 
>This idea is based on a 2007 study (Source) that polled 5,446 undergraduate women from two universities by an online survey. Men's answers were also omitted from the study. As has been pointed out countless times, that kind of sample size is not reliable enough to extrapolate to a larger population, and, of course, with this kind of sample size, you could just keep repeating the test until you had gotten a conclusion that was palatable.

Why do you think that this sample size is "not reliable enough to extrapolate" to the population of all undergrads? The numbers you give seem to lead to a confidence interval of ±1% at a 99% confidence level, which seems pretty solid.
You seem to have a pretty well developed position. Are you sure you are open to having your view changed?

I'm going to stick to a small detail.

> This law that Canada is now facing on imposed speech regarding pronoun choices is just absolutely absurd.

The law you are referring to is called C-16 and it does nothing of the sort. C-16 merely adds Gender Identity to an already existing hate crime and harassment law. 

www.parl.ca/DocumentViewer/en/42-1/bill/C-16/first-reading

The only time you could potentially be charged with misgendering someone is if you are doing it as part of a campaign to harassment, discrimination or if you do it while you are already committing a crime against someone, it *might* be grounds for considering it a hate crime.


Whoa. This is...way too many CMVs for one CMV. I skimmed. But I thought I'd grab a little piece to focus on. I have a short attention span tonight. So, **manspreading.** 

> A great example of how the world is ergonomically built for short people (i.e. women), and how these people don't seem to understand what it means (a) to have balls, and (b) to be tall enough that your knees are pressed tightly against immobile steal grates if you want to pull your legs in on the bus.

Okay. So I am 6'0 and most of it is leg. I *empathize* with the struggle to fit all that leg into buses with rows of seats. And airplanes. And ubers with the seat pushed back (seriously why). I'm also not exactly what you would call small in the general ass/hip/thigh region. Like, at all. So again, I appreciate that the world sometimes feels built for tiny people. A couple things though:  first, the world isn't built for especially small people--it's built for *average* people. The average woman is around 5'4, the average man around 5'9. That's only a 5" difference! Women are not microscopic compared to men by any stretch. And the standard deviation for male height (according to [this](https://tall.life/height-percentile-calculator-age-country/) calculator) is nearly 3". So something like 25% of men are between 5'9 and 5'6 (basically the average woman's height). And by the time a man is 6'1 (not taller than me in shoes), only 10% of all American men are taller. 

And I can keep my damn legs in my seat space. Why can't the 6'1 man? 

Yes, it can be uncomfortable to fold all that long leg into a small space. But if you don't feel entitled to take up as much of that limited space as you want, you act polite like your mother raised you and keep it tight. Women were apparently socialized to be polite and respect public space. I don't know why men missed the memo, but it's *rude.* You think I want your leg touching mine on my commute home? This is America, damn it, I want my personal space.

But the worst part is, regardless of what you claim here, it isn't about leg room. The classic examples of manspreading are on [subways](http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/manspreading), where [leg room](https://www.inquisitr.com/2131181/manspreading-are-you-guilty-of-this-crime-could-you-be-arrested/) isn't [even](https://www.wnyc.org/story/mta-seeks-end-man-spreading-and-backpack-wearing/) a [concern](https://media.wnyc.org/i/800/0/h/99/1/manspreading1_DSC1744.jpg). Why on earth do you think that when you take up a seat and a half (or more), *feminists* are in the wrong when they complain? I wedge my thick hips into the seat, cross my feet at the ankle so my knees hang open a bit, and haul my purse onto my lap because for some reason my clothes don't have enough pockets for basic shit. If I can, so can men. Get. It. Together. 

You are one person. You are entitled to one seat worth of space. You can fit. The car wasn't built for women, it was built for an average person. Your balls do not make you so magical that you deserve extra space. Adjust, and restrain the spread to that acute angle which allows you breathing room *without* encroaching on my space.

I also deserve to have an entire seat to myself. I'm also not super enthused about the size situation, but your balls don't mean you win. You don't get to crowd women out so you have a full 120 degree spread.  

It's sad that it has to be a 'feminist' issue--as far as I'm concerned, only taking up a reasonable amount of space is basic decency. 
Free Speech:

Bill C-16 does not say what you think it does. For some reason people have memed this bill to be about criminalising misgendering but it is anything but. 

Milo Yiannopoulous does not deserve a platform, and there is good reason for campuses and other platforms to not allow him to speak there. There have been cases where he has used the platform to say derogatory things about particular students at the university. If Milo was looking for a debate that would be one thing, but he is firmly an entertainer, not an intellectual.

>They do everything they can to suppress entire categories of what constitutes humor

This seems like hyperbole. What is "everything they can"? What are they doing to suppress it? What are these categories you speak of?

>they clamp down on artistic expression by claiming "cultural appropriation" 

A criticism is a criticism, and cultural appropriation can be a valid criticism. I don't see how this limits free speech more so than it is a function of it.

>endorse 'safe spaces' that outright ban certain topics of discussion.

There is nothing wrong with safe spaces, if you don't want to participate in one don't go. It's hard to see what utility a safe space for gender and sexual minorities would gain from promoting speech that derides them for who they are.

>Their attempts to suppress these alternative ideas and modes of expression often escalate to violence

When? How often is often?

>Their promotion of ideas like "blaming the victim"

Isn't this a forgone conclusion that they are wrong about this? What is your argument against people objecting to victim blaming?

>any views that don't fit their narrative, and take truth claims as being valid or invalid depending specifically on the person making them.

Isn't this sort of what you are doing with this post? Aren't you concluding that feminism = a whole bunch of things you don't like? 

>
There is a real and palpable taboo in our society surrounding calling out the absurd ideas being propagated by the extremist left, and I really think these views need to be called out for the bullshit they're comprised of so that we can all just start trying to work together here.

In my opinion, feminism and left wing ideology are about working together. Unfortunately, what I see from you is not arguments against feminism but a laundry list of evil behaviours that you attribute to feminism. Feminism has been dealing with a protracted smear campaign since its inception, and has only very recently gained some mainstream and academic traction. What I see from you and the thousands of other redditors on this topic is a regurgitation of the same evils attached to women's liberation. What I don't see a lot of from this crowd are things that don't rely on ad hominem.

For instance, lets assume (and I don't think it's much of an assumption) that you have some beef with Anita Sarkeesian. Maybe you think she censorious for disabling comments, for instance. Anita Sarkeesian is a public feminist, and she does an "evil" thing, whatever that happens to be. Too often this critique of Anita becomes the critique of the movement or the ideology. Indeed, a lot of the arguments you have presented deal with attaching an evil character to the person making the argument. Looking at your title:

>Feminism is not synonymous with egalitarianism, but is instead a sexist, **man-hating, hypocritical, double standard wielding, dishonest, free-speech hating**, nebulously incoherent ideology, for which there are very few actual moderates, and we should collectively disavow it as a society

Most of the list is about the people who subscribe to feminism more so than feminism the ideology itself. What's worse, you make it very hard to see the redeeming qualities of a movement when you characterize it as inherently dishonest. Even good behaviour brought up to counter the laundry list of "bad behaviour" (it isn't bad, necessarily) you wield can be characterised as "virtue signalling" or some other derision based on the postulation of an ulterior motive. 


is the presence of moderates a prerequisite for validity? just to take it to extremes, what would a Republican moderate in the time of lincoln have said about slavery?
So you think that actively focusing on helping women, and not helping men, someone is being sexist?

Is someone that is actively focusing on helping poor people, and not helping rich people, being classist?