Title: Hi there! Remember me? Some of you do, because I get called out from time to time...

Post:
I was away for a while on a forced vacation. How'd the Impeachment work out? Who won the Iowa caucus? Is Michael Avanati still a leading contender? How's Jeffery Epstein doing?

(These are rhetorical jokes, gnome sane?)

To anyone interested - If you want a subreddit where the moderators won't try to tell you how to say your opinion or re-write your posts for you or try to use the rules like a cop who pulls you over and then breaks your headlight...

r/PoliticalPerspectives is a subreddit intended for any and all political topics. It's a place you can go and say "The ______ (Political Party) Have Gone Crazy" and *I won't ban you for 3 months*... For example. All political opinions are welcome there. And "The ______ (Political Party) Have Gone Crazy" is clearly a political perspective, common in America and all over the world. 

But if you said "Gnome Sane is crazy" I'd give you a warning, then a ban.

Seems like a clear difference and an easy line to draw: You can insult the politics, not the redditor.

r/TheNewRedScare is about to boom with the Durham Report due. But that subreddit is specific for all things New Red Scare (And yes, that means Ukraine nonsense too.)

Same rule over there: You can insult the politics, not the redditor. You can agree or disagree with my positions. Everyone is welcome to express their political views, whatever they may be.

What if you want a place that has absolute freedom of speech? No holds barred?

I started r/LibertarianFreeState - which you can find in the sidebar right here in moderate politics - and then, as a *true* Libertarian, I handed it off to my next in command to see how the experiment of complete free speech would work. And it's working great! I hope that one day the succession of power becomes a thing over there... but I have no control over it at all anymore.

Thanks for the shout outs and the memories, r/moderatepolitics

Top Comments:
I figured I'd post as a user since this is a bit of a meta discussion thread-

I've always enjoyed gnome's perspective since it's one sorely missing from the subreddit sometimes. It's funny, because while we all like to pretend (and actively preach) that all voices are welcome here, in reality there's very much a party line to the zeitgeist unless you're *heavily* moderated in your discourse. That's by virtue of Reddit demographics though, and no fault of the sub in my opinion.

You can see it with regard to me; by any sane definition I'm a republican- but that doesn't mean I'm immune to political realities. Single-party rule (whether republican or democrat) would be devastating to our country and thus I don't support the idea; and it means my positions are moderated significantly despite being a strong believer in limiting federal programs, reducing governmental impact on day-to-day lives, and strong tenets of responsibility and accountability. 

At the same time, I back a public option to get healthcare *out* of the national discourse and solve critical problems in our healthcare system for the poor without destroying our economy. I support leaving gun control alone: not rolling back existing restrictions but not adding any more because the 2nd amendment is paramount. I'm pro-choice but of the 'safe, legal, rare' breed, so yeah- I have a small problem with 'killing babies' even though I'm not of the religious sort and even though it's slightly hypocritical of me on a personal level. I back farm subsidies because it's important for national security for America to be self-sufficient in the event of worst case scenarios, but also think they should be scaled back as we get more globalized proportionally. I think it's critical to be tough on China but recognize our economy's strength is tied to theirs. I'm in favor of legal immigration, but support strong border controls so we can institute the social program(s) we need in order to get them off the political bargaining table.

My point isn't to drill-down how great I am, it's to establish that even *my* positions draw scorn and ire around here in the form of downvotes more often than not. And that leads to a discussion we need to have (not now, but eventually) about downvoting legitimate views. When you push even moderates like me into submission we would only end up generating a gentler version of r-politics; and that's something nobody wants.

For every poster that is pushed away from this subreddit by virtue of feeling unwelcome on the right, the general tint of the sub moves further to the left. We have posts here regularly upvoted even by the time I get to them that I end up moderating that call for dismissal or even active disdain for the right, which is very much not in the spirit. I've only been doing this for a week or so now and even I see that. The best thing about the moderation team in my book is that we come from all walks of the political spectrum and apply both our political and human element of analysis to moderation decisions- and that's critical.

Anyway- my point isn't to ramble; it's a reminder that this subreddit is a great place by virtue of the fact that it's striving to be better than many others, and ideally we're *all* dedicated to that goal. The moderation team does a lot to try to further that goal, every one of them, and I love [us/them] for that, but it starts and ends with posters and lurkers the lot of you. Chime in, say your piece, take the risk, and say something. When you see a post you agree with but that isn't in the spirit of moderate debate, downvote it and hit that report button. When you see one that you disagree with that adds an element to the discussion, hit the upvote button and reply to refute it- with facts and sourced arguments. Be the change you want to see.
Before people go nutty, there's no problem with this post from my perspective- it's a meta discussion post surrounding, recommending, and discussing alternative political subreddits which we've had before in many stripes.

I will just remind everyone very politely that rule 1 and rule 1b will be enforced here, however; so avoid personal attacks on redditors or associated groups redditors may identify with.
> [r/TheNewRedScare](https://www.reddit.com/r/TheNewRedScare/) is about to boom with the Durham Report due. 

That place looks ***poppin***. Do you have it set up so only you can post articles and have comments disabled, or...?
Hey, I remember you!  You got banned for 3  months.  If I remember right it was because you like to see how close you can get to breaking rules and then claim technicalities when you get called out.

Why do you have to be that way?

Seems to me you’d get your message out better without the drama.  

Technicalities may work in a court of law, but banning is decided in the court of public opinion.  Don’t need to be particularly accurate with a pitch fork.

Be nice, it’s not that hard.
Election season is heating up so all the outside organizations that flood social media with certain viewpoints are getting flush with money. 

  
Any conservative voices still on this board should be realistic that the problem is only going to get worse until the end of election season.
I don't understand what's wrong with this subreddit? I like the moderation. I like the starter comment rule. I like the rule about not attacking people. I'm not looking for another propaganda outlet for people to spam clickbait headlines. I don't follow the standard r/politics. I was Banned from r/conservative and called a "leftist dolt." I was Banned from r/the_donald for pointing out hypocrisy. Here I can speak my mind, ask questions, read the opinions of others, and engage in civil discourse without the threat of being removed for having a different opinion. All I have to do is keep a level head and not be a dick.