Title: CMV: As another election season rolls around I see no reason to actually believe "I'm a Democrat who actually believes nothing but Fox News/Prison Planet/Daily Mail talking points and thinks the Democrats are extremists" posters are anything other than obvious shills or should be taken in good faith

Post:
Ah examples.  Lets pick an example.  Lets say we run across someone on Reddit who claims to be a moderate democrat who is 

- Desperately concerned about Antifa terrorism, expresses no concerns about far right terrorism
- Thinks the major problem with racism are people are too aggressive in combating it
- Hates how the Democrats are talking about packing the Supreme Court, thinks the current one is politically neutral
- Can't understand why anyone is concerned with the rise of fascism and far right extremism, thinks far left extremism is a threat to America
- Thinks that censorship is something that twitter does by 'cancelling people' and the right does 'far less'
- Thinks the Democrats are "too focused on gender politics", can't see any evidence the Republicans are obsessed with them at all.  
- Can't help but talk about the 'good Republicans' and 'bad Democrats' and hate how the Democrats don't respect bipartisanship

Or hell, holds even a solid chunk of these beliefs.  Is there any reason, given how this ramps up leading in to every November since 2016 that I should think anything other than "this is exactly what it looks like?" Is there any reason to give these people the benefit of the doubt?  Or do we just point out the bloody obvious?  

Because outside of 'assume everyone comes in good faith' I'm having a lot of trouble thinking of any reason to assume these people are anything other than exactly what they actually look like.  I've literally never met anyone like this in real life, and I'm having trouble believing they read any news or are in any way aware of current events.  So, this is one I'll toss over to CMV.  Is there actually anyone like this?  Like, anyone with access to a computer who is actually likely to post on Reddit and not some 90 year old who votes Democrat because their family always has, but gets all their news from random rumors they hear from Dr. Oz and daytime soap operas?  Because I'm really losing every single ounce of belief I have that even one of these schmucks comes in good faith.  

CMV, there isn't an appreciable percentage of people in the real world like this, and to keep the conversation from being bogged down in obvious crapolla we should shut every one of them down until they go back to their main accounts or at least make one that is less flagrant about the lying.

Top Comments:
/u/ScientificSkepticism (OP) has awarded 1 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/y8qy3r/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_as_another_election_season/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
It’s pretty counterproductive to post “does anyone believe this shit… except some 90 year old who always voted democratic because of their family or whatever” (sic) in a post saying that blue people that don’t fall into red or blue boxes every two years aren’t true democrats as you define it, but stupid and underhanded people. 

Let me ask you, what is a moderate democrat? That’s something I can find in Websters Dictionary next to a picture of Senator Sam Nunn? Or is it the picture and definition less clear.
You’re not crazy. There are organized efforts to flood discourse and steer it in particular ways. Russian interference in 2016 is one that became generally known for a while. But it’s not always foreign governments. I don’t wade into areas of Reddit to see it, but I do on twitter. Since I’m more familiar with it over there, those are the examples I’ll use—vaguely to stay as anon as possible.

If they’re organized online, a lot of times it’ll be organized off-platform, in places like discord, 4chan, or k1wi f*rms. Less experienced ones will do it on their mains: discuss making alt accounts to play Concerned Democrat, or fake “As A Black Person, …” alts to disrupt & steer discourse, or to specifically go after an individual. 

It works because most people are just looking at that one thread—most people aren’t clicking through to profiles to see the whole, where it becomes more obvious what the account is. 

It works also, because the vast majority of users don’t use any platform’s reporting function, ever. Most platforms just don’t respond quickly enough to reports either. About the only thing I’ve seen Twitter act on quickly is ban evasion, so even those that are reported are slow to be acted upon. 

And you are correct—principles of democrats and other left wingers of good faith engagement, deferring to members of disenfranchised groups, taking seriously any accusations of bigotry, unethical behavior, are all exploited to keep these accounts from being challenged. 

For election related efforts, I do see a lot of rhetoric aimed at and around discouraging voting, or to vote third party, both sides’ing, etc—and if challenged, to engage in a moral outrage type response of How Dare You Demand Labor of Me/Act like Democrats are entitled to my vote—designed to trip the desire generally held by the left to not engage in Oppressive behavior. 

Thing about it is, ethical people behave ethically—which is predictable. Online, groups behave in certain ways, in certain patterns, which is predictable. Predictable is easily exploited by bad actors. 

They can’t see anything but posts and replies though, and they do rely on engagement to get more attention, more legitimacy, etc. As individuals, best response is to lurk & poke, report anything reportable, use the downvote appropriately. Avoid responding directly—if you absolutely must, reply to whomever they’re replying. Platforms & mods are better placed to address it—responding to reporting quickly, and use any tools available (not a mod so idk) to weed out sockpuppets & brigading.
One could very make an ideologically flipped version of this and be describing me quite precisely. Am I acting in bad faith if I think Biden won 2020, COVID was a serious threat, the vaccines were a wondrous invention, Putin is a menace to the world, and yes even drag queen story hour deserves equal access to pubic facilities, but still describe myself as a conservative? Certainly, a number of folks would call me a 'RINO' for these positions, just as you state that anyone on the left who's concerned about Antifa beating the shit out of innocent bystanders or is worried about the culture of free speech getting eroded on the left isn't really supporting of some of the more overarching ideological goals of the project. Surely you see the similarities between your point of view and the 'MAGA' crowd calling Mitt Romney and David French 'RINO's? 

I'd say that *most* people in the real world are somewhere in one of these categories, because *most* people in the real world are not as politically engaged as those who make it a point of even engaging in intellectual discussion about politics in the first place. Between confirmation bias, and the whole 'upvotes create echo chambers' issue within Reddit, it's easy to get the idea that the middle doesn't exist.
I think what you have done here is strawmanned a lot of these concerns people on the left bring up. It's like you get half their point, but then attach something radical to it at the end. 

I'm a liberal, yet I also think those on the *far* left (which only make up like 10% of Democrats) have gone too far. 

Let me explain a little using the points you provided:

>Desperately concerned about Antifa terrorism, expresses no concerns about far right terrorism

Antifa does operate like terrorists, I believe this and I've heard plenty of other liberals say the same thing. I have never heard one, though, suggest right wing terrorism is less of a problem or not a problem. Jan 6 is the obvious example. 

Why is it supposed to be wrong to not be a hypocrite and acknowledge that there's nutters on both sides of the spectrum?

>Thinks the major problem with racism are people are too aggressive in combating it

Again, never heard a single Democrat utter this. I'm assuming what you really mean is "Some Liberals (while still fully acknowledging racism to be an issue) take issue with the way some on the left deal with racism."

In which case, they're absolutely right. Some of the ideas about race on the far left are, frankly, stupid and idiotic. Ideas like defund the police are extreme, radical, and stupid. The police need lots of reform but straight up defunding them would be a catastrophe. Or other stupid ideas like how "all white people are racist" are, again, idiotic. Violent ideas like how it's ok to "punch a Nazi" are dumb, too, because it doesn't actually solve anything. You don't "beat" them with violence, that only makes them look like martyrs to other people on the fringe. Also, regardless, violence is never the answer. 

>Hates how the Democrats are talking about packing the Supreme Court, thinks the current one is politically neutral

Again, I've never heard a single Liberal say the current SCOTUS is politically neutral. There's some of us who don't think it should be packed, but I don't think anyone is saying it's neutral. 

On a personal note, I'm against packing the SCOTUS because I think it sets a bad precedent. We do it now, sure, but what happens in the future if it's a liberal SCOTUS and the GOP decides they don't like that? 

&#x200B;

>Can't understand why anyone is concerned with the rise of fascism and far right extremism, thinks far left extremism is a threat to America  


Again, never heard of such. Are we concerned about the extreme fringe of each political side? Yeah, of course. I'm not too fond of the idea of communism, nor am I fond of Nationalism. All I want is a nice, normal, liberal democracy. 

>Thinks that censorship is something that twitter does by 'cancelling people' and the right does 'far less'

Twitter does censor people. I'm not talking about the people like JK Rowling who have a bunch of mean comments directed towards them, I'm talking about people who actually lose their job as and have their life ruined as a result of a Twitter pile on. These people on Twitter essentially act as the thought police and it's a problem that needs to be addressed. 

Thing is, the right does it just as much as the left, if not more. "Cancelling people," according to the polls, is a pretty unpopular idea among Democrats, whereas the right loves it, though they wont admit to it being "cancel culture." Just look at Colin Kaepernick, they're still going ape shit over that guy. Bubba Wattson, Harry Potter, rock music, D&D, the Dixie Chicks, Starbucks, LeBron James, Disney.....These are just a few off the top of my head the right has tried to "cancel" over the years, and it has far more support among Republicans than it does Democrats.

>Thinks the Democrats are "too focused on gender politics", can't see any evidence the Republicans are obsessed with them at all.

This one I actually agree with you on. I think identity politics and all that are annoying and everything, but it's hardly a big deal. Very few Dems actually talk about it, practically no elected Democrat talks about it, and it's pretty much a non-issue. I have seen quite a few liberals, though, act like it's some ideology that's completely consumed the left. 

And Republicans think everything some dumb 22 year old says on TikTok or Twitter is national news. 

>Can't help but talk about the 'good Republicans' and 'bad Democrats' and hate how the Democrats don't respect bipartisanship

So being against absolute tribalism is a bad thing? Compromise and mutual respect is how you get things done. Sure, people like Trump and those who have caved to him don't deserve respect because Trump is a man without integrity and those who back peddled and caved to him--which is most Republicans--proved themselves to be nothing more than spineless cowards, also not deserving of respect. 

But Republicans who do have integrity, who have stuck to their beliefs despite this, yes, they deserve respect even if you and I disagree with them on a lot of things. Mitt Romney is one example. If nothing else, at least we can work with these people. 

And some Dems are bad, what's your point? Andrew Cuomo sucks. AOC, while a nice and genuine person, is kind of dumb. Kamala Harris isn't exactly my favorite either.
Beau of the fifth column had [a person](https://youtu.be/RvFE91UgM6Q) who is a homesteader (off the grid or nearly off the grid household) claim that he's a conservative but upon any reflection he was a proponent of Marxism in many ways. This could be similar to the hate everything that the Democrats stand for but still registered as a Democrat and identify as a Democrat. These are individuals who are not thoroughly introspective, and don't know the basis of their own beliefs. Maybe they are avid fans of a YouTuber who started out on one part of the political spectrum and then chased after an easier audience with videos that hyperserved that audience of another part of the political spectrum.
 
When you ask "why do you believe what you believe?" and "what are your core principles, and how did you come to those principles and not others?" you'll start to discover who has genuine thoughtful beliefs and who is just jibbering on about what they heard from somewhere else. The latter is not exclusive to the self-hating Democrats, there's individuals who never think about why they hold the political beliefs that they have, all over the map. Bernie Bros who are adamant that both primaries were stolen from him and not that there was institutional barriers he simply overcome; some of these individuals are the people who were susceptible to QAnon because they weren't moored by any well-thought principles but found that a sense of shared aggrievement with a dash of populist politics. 
  
Hitler, prior to coming to power in 1933, was always keen to recruit fanatics of whatever political stripe, monarchists, communists, less so for the Social Democrats since there was not the same fertile ground for fanatics as right wing extremists or left wing extremists. Fanatics can be used by nefarious individuals and are far more susceptible to be controlled than those with mild and moderate personalities who won't go drastically in any direction. If you coming across someone who is expressing fanatical beliefs that contradicts their self-identified partisanship it's just as likely it's their personality being expressed not just their being deceitful as to their political beliefs.