Title: CMV: To refer to subreddit moderation (bans, post and comment deletions, etc.) as "censorship" cheapens the wrong of actual, substantive censorship

Post:
Yes, I'm aware that on the most general, literal meaning of the word "censor," subreddit moderation would be an act of censoring, [as per Miriam-Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/censoring)

>to suppress or delete as objectionable

But we all know that the sorts of censorship that get spoken up about, that people *die* to oppose, are not things like you got your comment deleted for saying a slur, and not even you can't post on /r/conservative any more because you said maybe the U.S. has too many guns, or whatever. 

It's things like active Chinese state control of the media; even the kinds of book bannings that conservatives in the U.S. regularly call for.

Moreover, the whole *point* of Reddit appears to be to give people the tool to make communities and run them according to the rules and values they want to (at least insofar as they conform with the overall Reddit TOS, and Reddit itself is of course notoriously slow to take action on anything). So it's doubly strange to call that "censorship;" it's the website working as intended. There are explicitly unmoderated, or mostly unmoderated, subreddits, for those who really bristle at being told what to do.

Open to changing my view, as I can sort of see some of the other side here but nothing has really moved me yet. I will definitely *not* change my view if you just insist that the word does include this, as I've already conceded that it does; I just think there's a more meaningful, substantive sense of what we actually tend to morally decry as *censorship* that is not captured by subreddit mods running their communities in the way Reddit lets them run them.

EDIT: Wound up hitting on maybe a better, more specific articulation of my issue with this in a comment, so just putting that here:

I object to the use of language that connotes something so much more powerful to refer to something so banal. I don't think people are reaching for "censorship" just because it's "technically correct," I think it's because they actually think their grievance rises to the level of the other things "censorshio" gets legitimately used for.

EDIT 2: Looks like responses are drying up, though I'll certainly try to respond to anyone else who comes along. My view has been changed with regard to the word "censorship" necessarily being intended to connote something meaningful when applied to subreddit moderation, and not just being a word people reach for to describe something unpleasant that happened to them. This lines up with my thinking on other words in other contexts; I think I'm probably being too rigid here.

Top Comments:
/u/Icy_River_8259 (OP) has awarded 2 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/1iirbj6/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_to_refer_to_subreddit/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
Its censorship.

There is no lying about this. Content moderation is censorship.

We can talk all day about the specifics of that moderation policy, or whether or not thats beneficial to the communities we'd like to foster.

Its not government censorship but its censorship.

Wtfe book bans occur in Florida public libraries are probably less impactful than this subs terrible choice to institute a fucking Voldemort topic.
It’s the opposite in my view. 

People openly cheering on these milder forms of censorship as per your Reddit example are turning a blind eye to the doors opening to the more serious drastic censorships.

It would be in *our* best interests to act “in the spirit” of free speech & have less censorship rather than excuse it on technicalities.

And no I’m not looking to throw slurs around. I don’t particularly appreciate how that assumption is tossed in every time someone brings this up but here we are.
I think it’s ok to use strong language to object to something, especially since (as you note) it is technically accurate.  

One does not need to live oppressed by a totalitarian regime to object to something.  Sure, Reddit and other media are corporate beasts and 1A is not directly applicable to T&Cs people accept for the privilege of helping Reddit make money from advertising.  

But social media has become a bit of a public square by default.  And some of the moderators are just jerks in the way they go about their enforcement with their heavy handed, echo chamber mentality.  It certainly **feels** like censorship.  

So I don’t see anything “wrong” with the c word in this context.  And if it helps people lament the loss of an actual public square and understand the nature of social media, what’s the harm?
Do you believe that profanity filters are not a form of censorship?

What about bleeping profanities or blurring nudity on television?

 It really seems as though you're attempting to narrow the definition of censorship to suit your cognitive dissonance between supporting one form of it while ostensibly claiming to be against another.
I don't think of censorship as a particularly strong word to be honest. In my mind, the first thing that pops up isn't related to the government at all, it's bleeping out swear words. So it's use for subreddit moderation doesn't really seem to cheapen it to me, as that is probably more impactful than keeping entertainment media PG. 
As an addition, you are probably underestimating the importance some of these communities have to their members. Being isolated from a community, that might be the entirety of the social life of some members, because a mod has decided you're out on a whim is pretty damaging. While you don't see the big deal, it is to them.
First, those who oppose censorship and support freedom of speech generally view freedom of speech to be threatened by both government and mob opinion.

Second, while the early thinkers on freedom of speech focused much more heavily on the threat from government, that was because government at the time was by far the greater threat. But the government is now, in the first world, generally limited by constitutional safeguards from interfering too much in free speech. At the same time, social media has greatly empowered the mob and replaced meatspace as the default town square. It is hardly surprising that anti-censorship concerns now focus on this.

Third, the problem with Reddit is that the censorship finds its way into subreddits that are meant to be open to all. If you go into r/democrat and start arguing abortion is murder, or to r/conservative to start spouting TDS talking points, sure, you can reasonably expect a ban. But something like r/pics is meant to be the general first stopping point on Reddit for everyone, and shouldn’t be banning people based on partisan affiliation.
So how does the types of use of the word "censorship" you're talking about "cheapen the wrong of actual, substantive censorship" - and what do you mean by "cheapen"?