Title: ACLU under fire after tweet of white baby holding American flag and wearing a "free speech" shirt. Thoughts?

Post:
http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2017/aug/24/aclu-admits-to-white-supremacy-after-tweeting-phot/

http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/08/24/aclu-backs-down-in-face-twitter-s-wrath-for-pic-white-baby-holding-us-flag.html

Actual tweet: https://twitter.com/ACLU/status/900459882989600768

(Sorry I couldn't find a left-leaning source, for those who prefer them; it seems only right-leaning news sites are doing this particular story. But you can see the tweet for itself, and more importantly, see all the replies to see that this isn't fake news or anything.)

Gist of it is, ACLU tweeted a picture of a baby who happened to be white, saying it was the future they wanted, and got backlash. ACLU then apologised and acknowledged that "white supremacy is everywhere".

To me, it's a little frustrating how no good deed seems to go unpunished. I feel like ignoring the American flag, the "free speech" shirt and the cuteness and innocence of the baby and heading straight for the whiteness of the skin has to be a conscious decision, one made purely out of the need for an excuse to be offended. It's also a sign that emotions post-Charlottesville have reached a point where some people on the left are looking for enemies where there are none. Do comment on this if you disagree, but I feel like there is absolutely no way you can genuinely mistake the ACLU for a group that supports or condones white supremacy.

I think what really puts a tragic irony in this is the context of Obama's recent, now-famous tweet, "No person is born judging the colour of someone else's skin" or something similar. That's exactly the sentiment the ACLU were trying to provide when they chose a picture of a baby for their tweet. It's saddening to see people finding hatred in what should be a universal symbol of innocence and hope for the future.

It's also troubling how quickly the ACLU seemed to crumble under this backlash, and the way in which they introduced the term "white supremacy". I'd have thought this isn't a controversial opinion, but tweeting a picture of a baby who happens to be white has absolutely nothing to do with a bunch of idiots caught up in baseless ethnic tribalism. I'm seeing a huge danger of the words "white supremacy" being co-opted and weakened by liberal sociological commentary, the same way words such as "triggered" and "appropriation" have been. People will start using "white supremacy" to describe things such as tweeting a picture of a white baby, or hiring an above average proportion of white people, or being slightly more cautious around ethnic minorities, when at worst these things could be described as negligence of modern-day race-based issues, and at best nothing at all. We need the words "white supremacy" to describe the brand of dangerous, racist loon that is still running around in the developed world. The loss of power of those words would lead directly to the normalisation of the people described by them, which is precisely the worst-case scenario.

Still, I trust the ACLU. I don't think they're gonna give in to the worst parts of liberalism any time soon, and to me they represent the best parts of it.

Top Comments:
Agree that people are too quick to be offended and the ACLU did not need to apologize.  

I also feel that allowing twitter comments to drive our debates is generally not productive.  I don't know how many news stories I have seen about a few outrageous/moronic comments on Twitter or Facebook.
I'm tired of the mentality of people having the worst intentions. Why can't this just be what it is? Celebrating free speech. Why do we have to label it one side or the other? It is tiring to have sides constantly yelling at each other over nothing. 
I think there are a lot of potential layers to this issue. Such as the possibility that the people that were accusing the ACLU of white supremacy may have (mostly) been trolling, and the media may have exaggerated this story for sensationalist effect. 

But with all that being said...

I've been a liberal/Democrat basically all my adult life and I'm the first to point out that the Left has always had a fundamental problem: They attack members of their own kind for the smallest misstep with the same ferocity that they attack their opponents with. There is always tremendous infighting when one sub-group feels like another isn't quite living up to some ideal. 

This is in stark contrast to the conservatives. They band together incredibly strongly. Just watch the Sunday talk shows... it's amazing how they're all perfectly on message and defending each other. 

It's possible that conservatives have bitter infighting. But if they do, they do it in private whereas liberals do it in public. I think it's a shame because liberals could be stronger if they handled this kind of thing in a different way. 
The left should be praising the ACLU as much as possible, instead they're attacking them.  There's something wrong when a civil liberties organization is being attacked by the civil liberties side of the aisle.
Some context for why this looks bad: there's a Neo-Nazi slogan called the ["14 Words"]( https://www.splcenter.org/fighting-hate/intelligence-report/2015/racist-skinhead-glossary): "We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children." Because of that, putting the word "future" in a tweet with a picture of a white child can remind people of that slogan. If a person doesn't know about the ACLU and thinks that the association was intentional, it would look like they were supporting Neo-Nazis.
Kudos to the ACLU for recognizing the bad impression and not doubling down. Shame on the Washington Times, Fox News, and Twitter conservatives for trying to manufacture more of a controversy than there was. 