Title: What has Trump done in office that is not only illegal, but prosecutable as well?

Post:
With Trump one foot out the door of the White House (whether he likes it or not), I'm hoping the Biden Administration will bring Trump to justice for the crimes he committed in office.

However, in our zealousness to ensure the law is upheld, we also must take care to ensure we don't set the exceptionally dangerous precedent of making a former president a target of the state for his political beliefs. So while Trump may have broken the law quite a bit in office, the Biden Administration must take great care to follow the rule of law to the letter themselves, lest we become part of the problem.

Some of Trump's atrocities - like the forceful clearing out of protesters in Lafayette Square - might have been unconstitutional. But the problem with that, however, is that violating the constitution does not, by itself, carry any fines or imprisonment. There are many different ways that something can be illegal. When we think of something being "illegal," most laymen usually think that it's something you can go to jail for, but that's only one way for something to be illegal. When it comes to constitutional rights like free speech, usually the only "penalty" attached to it is an injunction to stop doing the unconstitutional behavior ... something Trump is going to have to do anyway by the time Biden has the authority to prosecute him. The only way something can become illegal in the sense that you can go to jail for it is if a statute (and it absolutely must be a statute, not an executive order, not a Chevron-esque administrative ruling, nothing else but a statute) explicitly states that doing this action carries a penalty of X-Y years in prison.

So that begs the question: Of all the bullshit Trump has pulled in the past four years, what among it can Biden actually *prosecute* him for?

Top Comments:
Honestly I think it's much more likely he's prosecuted at the state level, probably for some sort of tax or financial crimes.
I think it's more likely NY will go after him for tax fraud, or money laundering, or something along those lines. I don't think Biden's DOJ will go after Trump for anything unless it's a clear cut major national security situation.
Trump isn’t going to be prosecuted by Biden. He just ran a successful campaign on unity and bringing Americans together. Biden prosecuting Trump does the opposite of that. You think things are polarizing now?
Honestly, I think the biggest egregiousness we don't have details about (and we may never have details).  


Donald Trump is corrupt. This should be relatively uncontroversial.  


[The President and his administration did not maintain records according to politico.](https://www.politico.com/news/2020/11/09/biden-trump-national-security-435364) So one-on-one conversations (with Putin and others), Kushner talking on (fucking!) whatsapp, the President's tendency to rip things up. Firing inspectors-generals, not releasing his taxes or showing potential conflicts, a huge list of campaign and admistration people who have been investigated, prosecuted, convicted of crimes and pardoned by Trump. Weaponizing the DoJ.   


We may never know the full extent of what just occurred.  


As a (wise?) man once said, we have known-knowns, known-unknowns and unknown-unknowns.  


We do know that the President would often seek help from overseas in our elections. We know his company has greatly profited from his being in office. We know the President has debt that is owned by unknown entities.   


The lack of enforcement from having a quorum at the FEC is ... suspicious when people are wondering where the campaign's 1B war-chest went. The irregularies in the stock market (Kodak).  


And the unknowns are ... unknown.  


So to answer your question, I think we may see state charges against Trump for tax evasion and whatnot. But those cases are notoriously expensive to fight. I personally think there should be a whisper quiet investigation from the Biden administration to see if there's any there-there. I don't want an investigation for the sake of an investigation, but just from my perspective I want to know a bit more.
Campaign finance violations from when he paid off Stormy Daniels and the other woman to keep quiet before the 2016 election.  This is the same crime that his former fixer Michael Cohen was convicted and sentenced to prison for.
I definitely know Biden won't speak of prosecution of Trump. That's not what president do, they don't talk about who they want investigated and prosecuted. 

He will let the DOJ have freedom to bring charges where they find them without interference from the Whitehouse. The way it should be.
Federal prosecution of Trump would ruin Biden’s “come together” rhetoric. Can you imagine what would happen among Trump’s base if he is arrested by Biden’s DOJ? That being said, he is being investigated for Hatch Act violations and that is probably the most likely avenue for federal criminal charges. Some people argued that he could be charged with federal tax evasion, but the accountants basically shield him from criminal liability. State prosecution is far more likely than federal.
Off the top of my head these are the likely avenues that could be pursued.

1. Campaign finance crimes from the 2016 campaign. He used campaign funds to pay off stormy daniels. Michael Cohen went to prison for this crime and Trump is listed as "individual-1" in this case. 

2. The rape of E. Jean Carrol. Carrol alleges he raped her and that she has his DNA on a dress that she saved from the incident. She has been attempting to acquire a DNA sample and match it to him. 

3. Tax fraud. The info we have seen from his taxes are highly suspicious, if anyone ever actually acquired his full returns it seems highly likely tax fraud is occuring. 

4. Obstruction of justice. The Mueller report outlined multiple instances where Trump committed obstruction of justice but the opinion Mueller presented said you could not indict a sitting president.
I think for one, his violations of the emoulements clause of the constitution should carry some penalty. I think they should file a civil suit to claw back any and all gains made by Trump, his family, or his group of businesses that were directly or indirectly impacted by his time in the White House. They should not get to keep all the money foreign countries were spending to stay his hotels to gain his favor. They should not get to keep the money paid to house his entire entourage every time he stayed at Mar A Lago, etc.
There's a pretty obvious obstruction of justice and perjury case to be made in terms of how he handled the Mueller investigation.  Probably many of his senior administration are also guilty of this and in other cases where they knowingly lied to Congress.