Title: CMV: The perception that the USSR was morally worse than the US during the cold war (1946-1991) relies on valuing some human lives more (citizens) than others (foreigners).

Post:
I want to start off by saying that I am in no way in favor of a Soviet-style government. It was a corrupt, inept and zealously dogmatic regime ruled by old senile generals living off their WW2 fame and a near-religious approach to Marxism.

However, when it comes to US vs USSR comparisons, it almost always boils down to treatment of their own citizens, and to a lesser extent the Soviet treatment of Eastern Europe vs the US treatment of Western Europe. It certainly was the case in Europe that the US treated their allies better, and arguably the US treated their citizens better. I would argue that the racial segregation and mass incarceration in the US does not put them miles ahead of the Soviets, and while Soviet censorship relied on brute force, American "censorship" (if you can call it that) relied more on mass media and twisting the narrative.

Where you lose me on the US being more moral, is in the post-colonial world/global south. The shit that was done in the name of containment was abysmal. Yes the Soviets were brutal to Hungary, but the US enabling of brutal ruinous, murderous dictators with the likes of Suharto, Marcos, Pinochet and Saddam Hussein shows that the Americans approached geopolitics with the cold hard logic of imperialism rather than liberal idealism when it suited them. Then there was the support for fascist militias/death squads, 64 counts of regime change, assassination of leaders like Lumumba in the Congo (who had already suffered the worst of what history had to offer), and of course the deliberate radicalization of the Afghan people under the banner of Osama bin Laden and the Inter-Services Intelligence. The list goes on and I haven't even gotten to the CIA. The deaths from these actions quickly mount into the millions, directly and indirectly. The suffering even more so (millions and millions of indonesians were completely deprived of access to education, marriage and healthcare by a proto-fascist militia funded and trained by the US until today).

I understand that there was a competition going on, but just like it does not absolve the USSR neither does it absolve the US. I also do not accept what I call the "whoopsie defense", where the argument becomes that "we were well intentioned we just screwed up". It changes about as much for the US actions in Vietnam as it does for the USSR in the Holodomor.

Please remember that we are discussing the cold war, from 1946 to 1991, and that my claim was that you have to value the lives and rights of Americans and Europeans more than Africans, South Americans and Asians to assert that the USSR was morally worse than the US during the cold war. My claim is not "America bad USSR good".

Top Comments:
If you think that the USSR was free of systemic racial segregation and mass incarceration I've got some unpleasant news for you.  

I think you honestly give the USA far too much credit for regime change here.  Did the US put their finger on the scale in all of those examples?  Of course, as did multiple other countries all over the world but the biggest finger on the scale in each of those examples was the local population.  You can't just overthrow a government and install someone with zero local support and expect that to last.  We saw exactly that scenario in Afghanistan.  The second we pulled out our forces the country fell in days.  Keep in mind we tried HARD, super super hard in places like Cuba and Iran and still failed to achieve the mission there because, again, no force is greater than the will of the local people, not even the mighty USA.
> and to a lesser extent the Soviet treatment of Eastern Europe vs the US treatment of Western Europe.

I'm sorry, "to a lesser extent"? The US treated its allies as, well, allies. When the french asked the americans to vacate the country, they just did.  Meanwhile, in eastern Europe the dictatorships were enforced by the russian army - if your country wanted the Russians to leave, the answer was tanks.

Eastern Europe was Russias South America. It shouldn't be glossed over like that.
>that my claim was that you have to value the lives and rights of Americans and Europeans more than Africans, South Americans and Asians to assert that the USSR was morally worse than the US during the cold war. My claim is not "America bad USSR good

Ok lets discuss the claim.

Soviets were brutal to the entirety of the Iron Curtain. Not just Hungary. Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Hungary, Yugoslava/the rest of the balkans. East Germany. It wasn't a "oh they were just brutal to Hungary". It was general brutality. 

But lets look at other nations. Start with Asia. Japan, Philippines, (South) Korea, Vietnam. All well supported by the US, huge influxes in cash and development, and protection. Instilled democracy and gave general sovereignty to all these nations. 

USSR on the other hand supported North Korea and assisted in arming China to try to give total control of Korea to NK. Armed the NVA and Vietcong, along with China to the general misery of those in Vietnam. Supported to a lesser degree other fanatics and warlords like Pol Pot.

So US certainly, despite war crimes in Vietnam, is on the "good" side morally for Asia.

For the Middle East, US did attempt to instill democracy in nations like Egypt, Israel, and Iran. USSR wanted to conquer Afghanistan. Hussein was horrible, but ultimately the overthrowal of Hussein was worse than his rule. So point for and against the US with him.

I can't speak much for AF/SA. Other than that the Soviet's support of communist regimes was worse than the US's lesser support for those like Pinochet. Castro was extremely evil, and Cuba still hasn't recovered. 

Also as you even note, the USSR can't forget holodomor, and its support of communist China. The first leading to the deaths of over 10 million, the second leading to the deaths of probably just shy of 100 million. (Though, the USSR isn't as cupable since it wasn't directly responsible for stuff like the Great Leap Forward, but it was directly responsible for Holodomor, or the massacre of Poles at Katyn.)
One of the issues about discussing Russian imperialism is that westerners are frequently completely blind to it.

They think that USSR just "spawned" in it's borders, and USSR borders weren't the result of brutal genocidal conquests and colonial rule over hundred of years. 

It's just people see "colonialism" as "overseas" activity only, so they don't see how Russia grew into Europe and into Asia, because it's done "over land".

Soviet Union had a few genocides _inside own borders_, and those borders were established by force first.
> The shit that was done in the name of containment was abysmal. 

The Soviet Union pushed for Mao, Kim Il Sung, Pol Pot, and a wide number of horrid dictators across Africa

You complain about Chile, but Pinochet killed less people across his entire 17 year reign than Mao killed **per day**  over his 27 year rule, which was significantly better than the rule of Pol Pot still. And when you look at the results of that, Chile ended up being a prosperous country, where as both China and Cambodia ended up being shitholes decades after the fact. Yes he was on the higher side of executions for treason (about 2000 dead over 17 years) done without particular due process, but you can very much make the argument that he was a good leader based on a utilitarian code of ethics. 

Then you have North Korea, which is its own shithole. 

Then you have cases such as Yemen or Somalia, Angola, etc.
>and of course the deliberate radicalization of the Afghan people under the banner of Osama bin Laden and the Inter-Services Intelligence.

The US never supported Osama bin Laden.  The US supported the Mujahideen who largely later became the Northern Alliance, and who were not really particularly bad.

>Saddam Hussein

Well the Soviets allied with him so why are you giving the US blame there and not the Soviets?
Any nation should value its citizens over noncitizens, that’s part of what a government should do. 

You seem to leave out all of the USSR’s foreign relations in your break down. The Soviets are the reason there is a North Korea as they would not allow the UN voting in the area they controlled, rather they set up the Kim family as a cult dictatorship and supported them in going to war. You mentioned Afghanistan but fail to mention the Soviets coup and support for the communist takeover of the secular government and the decade of Soviet occupation that was very brutal, much more so than the U.S. occupation. So yeah if you leave out all that the USSR did in regard to its own foreign affairs you can say they were more nice, but only if you forgot everything they did and cherry pick your examples. 