Title: CMV: Racism against Indians is getting dangerously normalized

Post:
In the last few months, I have seen a disturbingly high amount of extremely derogatory stereotypes being directed at Indians, and not just the immigrants living in the US, but the entire nation of India as well. While I understand the strong reactions to immigration policies in the recent conversation cycle and I can even sympathize with the notion to reduce the number of immigrants in the country, as is the right of any nation to decide and choose whom they want to let in. However, people seem to be receiving absolutely no push-back over making poop jokes or calling Indians \`Pajeets\` or the Apu accent, while in the same place if one were to make a negative stereotype of African Americans or Muslims or any other group, they would immediately receive pushback, and justifiably so. Somehow cherrypicking content from the bottom third of India's economic strata and making it the stand in for the entire nation of a billion and a half people seems to give people a great deal of pleasure, even though the Indians living in the west generally have been extremely productive and successful. That would be like making school shootings or obesity the hallmark of American identity or cherrypicking some one off incident from Alabama to assert that Americans love their cousins a bit too much. One could justify their disdain for any group with facts and figures but what we have been seeing is entirely meaningless punching down on Indians and absolutely no consequences to it. And this is not even a problem just seen from the MAGA right, as in the recent elections a lot of voters of Indian origin actually shifter right on account of not wanting to take paternalistic moral talking-down on some sociopolitical issues from the American left, especially with regards to identity politics as we do not fit their model of oppressed immigrants that needs a white liberal savior either, so even they have to put us in the oppressor group.

I would be willing to change my position if someone could show me that there is a considerable pushback towards this racism the way we pushback on racism towards black folks or any other identity group. I am all for free speech, but the lack of any consequences or push back is what worries me. I am not looking to discuss immigration policies as I believe its not even my place to do so, although I would like to dispell the myth that we are entering unchecked into America as there is an extremely long vetting process for issuing visas.

Top Comments:
\>That would be like making school shootings or obesity the hallmark of American identity or cherrypicking some one off incident from Alabama to assert that Americans love their cousins a bit too much. 

Those kinds of comments are made all the time and are widely applauded.
> Fascism is what's happening to Muslims of China or Hindus of Bangladesh and Pakistan. What's happening in India is simply the reaction to decades of antagonism by Muslims against Hindus despite receiving their own Islamic nations in 1947. Genocide of Hindus in Kashmir, or burning of train passengers in Godhra or routine beheading of Kanhaiya lal or Umesh Kolhe or Kishan Bharvad or stone pelting on Hindu processions has only now started seeing a reaction from the Hindu side,which is nowhere close to 'fascism' that you keep throwing around casually.

You posted this about two weeks ago.

I need to address you view, so here goes: it's not that racism *against indians* is being specifically normalized. There's a global rise in reactionary right wing movements, some fascist, and what they all have in common is a normalization of racism and bigotry.

So whether it's people in the US posting racist th8ngs about Indians with H1-B visas, or you supporting Hindu Nationalism, downplaying violence against Muslims, and saying India should 'expand to its original borders', the racism is an integral part of the fascist reactionary movement.
Racism in a natural instinct, and we have to defend what we have in this country. 

So many liberals and young people seem to think we can just bring in whatever people from every corner of the earth, and they’re just going to magically turn into Americans as soon as they set foot in the country and have their first Miller lite. 

When in reality, the overwhelming majority of the people coming in have no affinity for the country and no interest in assimilating, and are only coming to take advantage of our higher wages and ample social services (handouts).
When you’re taking about this increase in racism, are you meaning real life instances where racist comments are openly happening in person in the United States that no one stands against? Or is this purely online? 

I live in an area with a huge Indian diaspora and I haven’t heard anything about an uptick in real life racism or attacks. Not to say that it’s not happening, I’m just curious if this is happening in real life, or online? 

With online, you have simply no idea who is making what comments.
I disagree. I think jokes on the level that you are referencing are made in anonymous social media comments and publicly about black people and other races all the time. Look at the average [familyfriendly](https://m.youtube.com/@FamilyFriendlyYT/videos) video. They make tons of offensive low bar jokes about black people, other races, and women. They are also fairly popular. You just aren’t looking in the right places.
I can't really argue that anti-Indian racism hasn't gotten more prevalent in the past decade or so, because it has, but my main question (and I genuinely mean this as a question, since my social circles are fairly limited) is whether or not a lot of the new sentiment is coming from a specific portion of the online right.

The Apu accent, as shitty as it is to bust out, has been around for a goodly amount of time, and I think there was only a really brief period where it got pushback in general. The shit jokes and offensive monikers, however, are things I've only really ever seen on Twitter or 4chan.

That's not to say that this isn't something to be nervous about; after all, online movements can spiral out of control pretty easily. However, not every single bit of online reactionary culture makes it into the real world; see, for instance, that Ron DeSantis Sonnenrad/American Psycho video. My guess would be that the median American probably has the same level of racism towards Indian people that they did in 2014 or so, and the people who haven't are either terminally online assholes or tech-sector assholes. 

I guess it comes down to a quibble about semantics here, and whether something is getting "dangerously normalized" or just getting worse.
I don’t disagree with the part about racism against Indians being really strong, but I would argue it has remained fairly high consistently and there has been little change in the last few years beyond there being more Indian people in western nations recently and thus it’s discussed more.
>on account of not wanting to take paternalistic moral talking-down on some sociopolitical issues from the American left, especially with regards to identity politics as we do not fit their model of oppressed immigrants that needs a white liberal savior either, so even they have to put us in the oppressor group.

This is very strange, as I've spent a lot of time in leftist spaces and I've never seen Indians classed as an oppressor group. The Indian experience fits into leftist models of oppression just fine, and most leftists I know advocate social reform to reduce that oppression.
Unfortunately, I do not think I can change your view in the specific way you are wanting us to. 

The only thing I can offer is that Indian Racism has just been around forever and doesn't get called out for because it feels more like punching up rather than punching down. 

Hell there's an OLD joke that I've heard since I was knee-high about what the Bindi is actually for, and then there's the jokes about skinny, mid Indian dudes professing love to women online they've never met or even the "Bobs and Vagene" joke that was extremely prevalent in the 2012-2015 time period. 

Racism against Indians has always existed and has been prevalent and continues to get little pushback because oddly enough, Indians aren't the first thing that comes to mind when we picture a minority that we absolutely should not joke about because of power imbalances (like making classless jokes about Black People or Native Americans). When Americans think of Indian-Americans, they often picture something a bit closer to the Model Minority of like Japanese, Koreans, and Chinese people all doing extremely well in U.S.A as well as being more willing to assimilate into American society and not do crimes. 

So Indian Racism doesn't get pushback like people would get for being racist to Black people because on a similar but also different level, Indian Racism is like racism against White people. We're kind of in power, we kind of have to expect that people ain't going to like us and may make unsavory accusations and jokes against us. Jokes about Indian people doesn't usually feel like it's punching down because the perception is that Indians, on average, do extremely well in America and so they've got power and influence. It's ok to punch up and joke about them. (To be clear, it's not and the perception is not based in reality but it's there)