Title: CMV: Liberals miss the point about the FL Education bill when calling it "hypocritical," and most Conservatives also miss the point with their wishy-washy "It could also be called the 'Don't say Straight' bill!" defense of it

Post:
This has become a common talking point. Popular Athiest Youtuber Darkmatter2525 just released a video purporting to show several "hypocrisies" about Conservative stances - how they're ok with some forms of childhood indoctrination, but not others.

Meanwhile, a lot of "squishy" Conservatives, as Michael Knowles would call them, offer tepid defenses of the bill, saying "Look, we just don't want people talking about family values with kids, please wait till they're 8. It affects straight people too! You might as well call it the don't say straight bill!"

All of this misses the point, I think.

Try as they might, a teacher cannot educate kids without making *some* statements about what's virtuous and what's not, what's normative and what's deviant. "Neutrality" is not the goal here. For too long, Conservatives have opposed leftists pushing their agenda by wanting "neutrality" and "free speech," and that's why they never win and why the Leftist world view continues to get more and more prominent.

If a teacher reads a book to a class that involves a momma bear and a daddy bear and two cub bears, teaching some virtuous moral lesson, that book says something about family values. No one has a problem with that.

If the book instead were about daddy bear and daddy bear's boyfriend and daddy bear's dominatrix and daddy bear's transexual pangendered billy goat, most of us would have a big problem with that book being taught to our children, even if the entire rest of the plot/moral of the book was the same.

A math problem of "Sally has 2 applies and splits them equally between herself, her husband, and 2 kids - how many apples does everyone eat?" is fine. Change "husband" to "wife" and the problem is very clearly an attempt to indoctrinate ("normalize," as the left calls it) non-normative relationships.

________________

This isn't about "equality," that's the biggest lie the Right has bought into and why we never win. You're absolutely right that we want our young children learning one set of values, and not another. You're absolutely right that this isn't "don't say straight," and that we have no problem with normal families being discussed in classrooms but not deviant ones. 

This isn't hypocritical. It's no more hypocritical than "not letting the pro-drug side have an equal say" in DARE. We have to make judgment calls about what's appropriate for our children. Why are most Conservatives too spineless to say this openly? What's the appeal of advocating for "neutrality" against a force that wants to indoctrinate children into leftist ideology? Can't we unashamedly, openly oppose that?

Conservatives have fallen for this tactic many times, for example the "Hypocrisy" of supporting gun control when the black panther party started carrying. That's only "hypocritical" if you come to the discussion with some pre-conceived notion that everything is supposed to be "equal" - a belief so widespread because conservatives constantly failed to stand up to it, that saying otherwise today is heretical.

It's not hypocritical. Own it. "Yes, we absolutely want good hard-working self-sufficient Americans who love our culture to have easy access to guns, and we don't want inner-city thugs trying to upend our culture to have guns. That is our position. Nothing 'equal' is going on here."

CMV

Top Comments:
/u/byhu95 (OP) has awarded 1 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/ueea4y/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_liberals_miss_the_point/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
> A math problem of "Sally has 2 applies and splits them equally between herself, her husband, and 2 kids - how many apples does everyone eat?" is fine. Change "husband" to "wife" and the problem is very clearly an attempt to indoctrinate ("normalize," as the left calls it) non-normative relationships.

Why is that indoctrination? Those relationships exist, in the same environment as the husband-wife relationships. Some of their classmates will be growing up in those environments, and they are just as wholesome environments as the husband&wife ones. What do you even mean by normative?

Under your logic, wouldn't it equally be indoctrination to include representation (e.g. pictures) of people of multiple races in teaching materials (e.g. math problems), to ensure that children learn about other races than themselves? That's literally what your objection sounds like.

> If the book instead were about daddy bear and daddy bear's boyfriend and daddy bear's dominatrix and daddy bear's transexual pangendered billy goat

> This isn't hypocritical. It's no more hypocritical than "not letting the pro-drug side have an equal say"

Your comparisons speak volumes. Of course if you think that those are comparable to same-sex couple's relationships, you're never going to agree that this is about equality, which it totally is.
>  Change "husband" to "wife" and the problem is very clearly an attempt to indoctrinate ("normalize," as the left calls it) non-normative relationships.

Seems like this is the crux of the issue.  You think that a same-sex couple is deviant.
> This isn't hypocritical
> Why are most Conservatives too spineless to say this openly? 

hypocrisy.  they want to appeal to you, to put into place policies that view homosexuality and transgenderism in general as aberrant.

But, they also want to appeal to people who don't view homosexuality that way.  

So, they talk out of both sides of their mouth, misrepresenting the purpose of the bill, saying that this isn't what the bill is about to try to maintain a broader appeal.
>If the book instead were about daddy bear and daddy bear's boyfriend and daddy bear's dominatrix and daddy bear's transexual pangendered billy goat, most of us would have a big problem with that book being taught to our children, even if the entire rest of the plot/moral of the book was the same.

Being gay is not a fetish. Being gay is simply being attracted to same sex individuals, rather than opposite sex. Framing queer relationships exclusively in terms of sexual activity is the most insidious form of homophobia. 

Gay people own property together, raise kids together, run businesses together, have pets, pay taxes, do household errands, and, like hetero couples, have a sex life on top of that. They have relationships that are as robust and diverse as heterosexual people do, but conservatives are either incapable or unwilling of acknowledging that.
Boy that post takes a real journey from where it starts. 

> What's the appeal of advocating for "neutrality" against a force that wants to indoctrinate children into leftist ideology? Can't we unashamedly, openly oppose that?

What leftist ideology? That gay people exist?

> Conservatives have fallen for this tactic many times, for example the "Hypocrisy" of supporting gun control when the black panther party started carrying.

Why exactly is it that this wouldn’t be hypocritical?

> It's not hypocritical. Own it. "Yes, we absolutely want good hard-working self-sufficient Americans who love our culture to have easy access to guns, and we don't want inner-city thugs 

You can just say “blacks” at this point. 

>trying to upend our culture to have guns. That is our position. Nothing 'equal' is going on here."

Not treating black and white people equally is either directly hypocritical or directly racist. 

If you’re wondering why conservatives don’t come out and say it, it’s because it’s both things are so wildly politically unpopular.
They don't miss the point that you are making at all. They designed that bill to stoke the culture war. They use "equal" in their language because "owning it" is politically indefensible. However their goal is to push their culture hypocritically and draw an equivalent response to it.

All of this is so DeSantis can push himself as a culture warrior, draw attacks from liberals and draw more support from conservatives. It's purpose is so DeSantis can win the Republican Primary, since a Republican is almost certainly going to win the General in 2024

In that sense, DeSantis owns that bill
I’ve read some comments and you seem to be hung up on research, fair enough. I’m not going to trawl the entire internet or pay for access to journals for the sake of this post but a simple Wikipedia search on gay parents shows this:

Scientific research consistently shows that gay and lesbian parents are as fit and capable as heterosexual parents, and their children are as psychologically healthy and well-adjusted as those reared by heterosexual parents.

I can’t find research (at least in the 20 seconds it took to find the above) that explores why the share of gay people has been growing over the decades. I know you’re concerned that we’re turning kids gay, I personally suspect as others have said, that the more accepting climate simply helps gay people come out more, but can’t find research to back that yet- but nor can you. However to your point, why massively change the status quo? Society has progressed massively over the last 40 or so years, strangely in line with acceptance of LGBT people, so why upend it now?
If someone on the right _says_ they're in favor of "neutrality," "free speech," and "equality" and then acts in a way that contradicts those stances, then that's hypocrisy by definition. So what you're describing _does_ seem to be hypocrisy, unless you think that (1) conservatives don't say they are in favor of neutrality, free speech, and equality, (2) the FL bill is not in conflict with values of neutrality, free speech, and equality, or (3) the conservatives who say they are in favor of neutrality, free speech, and equality are a disjoint set of conservatives from the ones who pushed the FL bill.
No one is missing the point. That is just incorrect.

Liberals don't oppose the bill because it's hypocritical, they oppose it because it's anti gay.

As you pointed out some Republicans are denying that it is anti gay, and that's why Liberals are calling them hypocrites to get them to admit that.

If no Republicans ever denied that it was anti gay, you're right they wouldn't be hypocrites; Liberals wouldn't then support it, they'd oppose it even more.

Republicans are denying it's anti gay not because they aren't anti gay, but because they can't legally discriminate against gay people. If they said it was anti gay they couldn't pass it or they would have to repeal it when it is challenged for being discrimination.

Second, No republicans are saying the bill is anti straight. Why would they possibly want that? 

Liberals are the ones saying it's anti straight to make Republicans seem like hypocrites.

If Republicans admitted it was anti straight they'd have to admit it was also anti gay, which is the whole point.