Title: The Fears from inside of Russia

Post:
Disclaimer: I'm from Russia and its quite hard for me to write this post. It's hard because of the things my government is doing right now to Ukraine and because I don't want it to look like "Mel Gibson and Jesus" meme. So, to avoid any misunderstandings:

— I don't support Vladimir Putin and never voted for him.  
— I'm shocked what's happening in Ukraine right now. It's just wrong. It shouldn't happen. And I'm very sorry that I couldn't do anything about it.  
— I understand that Ukrainians are in much worse situation at the moment.  

That being said, I think it's important to say what is happening inside of Russia while I can.
Everything in this post is my own perspective. I'm 28 and work in IT.


So, where do we start? I'd say it all started somewhere around 2014. At least it became visible to the people. After Ukrainian revolution our state media immediately transformed to unstoppable propaganda bursting 24/7 that was putting threesimple things to peoples' heads:  
— New Ukrainian government is a Military Nazi Junta  
— Most of Ukrainians don't like them and are against the revolution  
— Ukraine has no sovereignty and they just being directly ruled from outside by NATO and USA, which is our worst enemies somehow  
They even tried to justify obvious offensive actions in Crimea saying that "If we don't take Crimea, our fleet base there will be replaced by NATO base and it's a huge threat to Russian sovereignty".


Thanks to propaganda it was hugely appreciated in the Russian population. Mostly in older strata, who was used to seeing USA as an enemy from the cold war era.
Then Donbass was going for 8 years now and all those years Russia was under the sanctions. Propaganda was telling people that they're good for us and it will boost our economy and internal productions. To make things even better, they declared counter-sanctions, banning European food from Russian stores. It should be mentioned that it became a local meme: every counter-measure from our own government is worse than the sanctions it was meant to address. It goes by "bombing Voronezh". Voronezh is a Russian city and the meaning behind "bombing it" is just general ability of Russian government of making the situation worse for us every time they want to somehow strike back "western aggression".


Those 8 years the Ukraine was used as a main theme on Russian TV to distract people from our own problems. Ukraine, Ukraine, Ukraine — Ukraine everywhere for 8 years now. The police just arrested the group of terrorists? Wow, they have Ukrainian flags under the table! This guy was neutralized trying to make a bomb in the center of Moscow? He has Ukrainian passport in his right pocket. And so on. Also they told that Ukraine was bombing Donets almost on a daily basis all those years.
To this year our country came separated. Younger people were at most just annoyed by the word Ukraine and mostly understanding what it all was about, and older part of the population were generally sure that Ukrainians want to behead every Russian, Russian-speaking people were opressed all the time and Ukrainian government are just a band of Nazi Puppets of USA.


Free media were censored one by one, journalists and activists were put to jail one by one. Any strike or demonstration were prohibited and its participants were just straight up beaten by the police, then put to jail to 15-30 days. Some activists were imprisoned for like 5 years just for attending more than 2 peaceful demonstrations. It should be said that Russian prisons are not comparable to European ones, they are more like concentration camps without any human-acceptable conditions.


When Vladimir Putin made his speech on recognition of independence of eastern Ukrainian provinces, many of my friends were shocked by his aggressive rhetoric. We were sure it won't end with just the fact of recognition. Many people discussed that but generally Russians were sure that he won't start any war because it will be catastrophic for him, us, Ukraine and everyone involved.


The morning of 24.02.2022 was shocking to all of us. Everyone was terrifying silent. Every one couldn't handle what happened and how to live their life from this point. There were no sanctions at this point, just horror, fear and depression. I won't tell much about the fact many of my friends just rushed ATMs this morning to take out their dollars in cash. We looked at all those videos of bombing Ukrainian cities and couldn't believe it's actually happening. Our state media didn't even mention those bombings: they were saying that Ukrainian army surrenders almost without resistance, people are happy that "we liberated them from Kiev junta". Even now they don't tell anything about ruining cities and even fighting against regular Ukrainian army — just Nazi detachments, and, of course, destroying them all the time.


Then came sanctions. It's still happening. I don't quite sure that you're able to understand how it feels. Every day, every hour, you nervously open your phone to read the news and more and more of your yesterday life is just vanishes. At 9 AM you see that half of car manufacturers leaving Russia, at 11 AM you see that Nvidia, Intel & AMD stopped selling their products here, at 1 PM you know that Apple stopped selling anything in Russia, then Paypal, then your bank card was blocked, Steam stops accepting payments, Spotify stops translating music, cloud platforms withdraw their services, airlines cancel all international flights.


Once you're became calm, counter-sanctions here for you to fall into depression once again. They started bombing Voronezh the next day: we can't transfer money to our own accounts in foreign banks (counter sanctions) and we can't get cash because our ATMs are empty now. International airlines banned from Russia as a counter-measere to banning Russian airlines from Europe. We can't even leave the country now. Armenia, Turkey and Kazakhstan our only options at the moment and so many people want to flee that tickets became expensive as hell.


Another day, another sanctions. Visa and Mastercard are leaving Russia so we can't pay with our card anywhere outside the Russia even if you have nothing to do with state-owned industries or banks. You can't pay for rent in order to leave Russia, you can't pay for your YouTube Premium, Netflix left. Car service can't repair your car because of lack of details. You can't pay $1 for this essential app on your phone now. IKEA stops selling furniture. You can't reinstall windows because Microsoft stopped supporting it's products in Russia. They even deleted Minecraft from the stores. PlayStation store stopped working. Cinemas can't show you Hollywood films. If you drop your iPhone, you can't replace the screen because Apple won't sell anything here. Coursera stopped selling courses to Russians. Hell, even Adobe left Russia! Hundreds of companies. Russia just rolls back to state of 1985 in terms of technology and quality of life. This is so funny that our government can't help itself and bomb Voronezh even further: they banned App Store and Google Play completely. 


Our censorship agency banning one media after another. Every day 1-3 free media are banned without even mentioning the cause. People are trying to set up some VPN to be able to see any objective information and can't pay because of payment systems problems.
We see hate everywhere! Even on GitHub there was a thread about how the world would be better if GitHub bans all Russians from open source platform. Those of our fellow citizens who managed to leave to Georgia are facing nationalism, that became real after Russian-Georgian war in 2008, and just intensified now. We're afraid to leave now, even if we could pay for foreign airlines without MasterCard or rent the house. There are rumors that Govt will disconnect Russia from global internet soon. They've already blocked all major foreign social networks like twitter and facebook. Youtube is believed to be blocked soon.


Shipping companies stopped to send container carriers here. In 2-3 months we will face clothing shortage (75% imported) and even food shortage (60% of seeds for our farmers are imported). Our production lines are already stopped: main car manufacturer can't do anything without imported details. Air factories can't build Airplanes due to same reasons. Our computers, though being slow and expensive, couldn't be built without imported semiconductors. Thousands of people just lost their job and it's just 10th day of the war. We're afraid to face every single morning. Those who understand basic economics are in horror and can't decide what to do now. The majority don't understand what's coming. They just go to their job, laugh, small talking and joke, knowing nothing about all the shit. Soon many of them will starve without wages and food to buy on their money. 


And the most shitty thing is that you can't do anything. They passed a law that says you can get 15 years of prison for spreading "fakes" about our "special operation" in Ukraine, and everything other than their point of view is claimed as fake. The police just stops you on the street and demand to unblock your phone, so they can look the chats and media you're reading or writing. Some guys just took their children and tried to lay flowers to WW2 Kiev battle memorial and now they're facing deprivation of parental rights for that. They have 5 children. And yeah, they were put to paddy wagon with all those children. You can google for that if you want to understand why Russians aren't on the streets. They just beat and imprison anyone who says "No to war" now. More than 10 thousands people are arrested last days for that. We're desperate. We don't know how to end this and how to leave the country. We're so ashamed of what's happening and so sorry for Ukrainians, but soon the massive humanitarian catastrophe will hit Russia as well. The situation is so serious that our bloggers started to post videos on what to do if you are near nuclear explosion, because it seems like Putin has nothing to lose.

I hope I gave you some perspective from inside of Russia. 
Just wanted to say all that before Russia disconnects the internet.


I'd like to say thanks for those who will read to the end. Kudos to 🇺🇦.  Be safe.


Edit: Oh, I forgot to mention, it seems like 100%+ inflation is already here. Diapers have tripled in price, coffee doubled. Technical equipment has already risen in price by 5-6 times.
Our pharmacies are warning that 70% of medicines are imported and there are even nobody to make pads for women at the moment. All manufacturers have stopped deliveries

Edit 2: Just found the article on nytimes, look at this to have more examples: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/world/europe/ukraine-russia-families.html

Top Comments:
Thank you for sharing this.  Stay safe, and I'm sorry it came to this.  The victims in this illegal invasion are innocent people like yourself who are just trying to get on with their lives.
It's unfortunate. While mostly everyone understands how little polticial power the Russian people have, it's hard to create sanction without harming the Russian people. Companies are doing this because it is the popular and accepted thing to do, but I do wonder if this actually helps the situation.
For those Russians like you who see through the propaganda and know what is really going on, is there an understanding that only Russians themselves have the ability to take their democracy back, depose Putin, and end this war?  Or do people think there is some other potential resolution?  How do you see this all ending?
I'm curious how Russians who watch state TV are processing the rest of the world's reaction. Do they think that the entire rest of the world is raising sanctions unjustifiably? Or are they questioning whether state TV is accurate?
thank you for this insightful post

know that many of us don't hate Russian people, only Putin (and some of the soldiers). I feel for innocent Russian citizens same as I feel for innocent Ukrainians
Sorry to hear the average Russian is suffering for something they did not do and have no control over.  Stay safe and hopefully better days are ahead for your people.
Great and super informative post!  A lot of this info I have wondered myself and your post perfectly encapsulates what is going on and in the minds of Russians.  This has a very Hitler’esque feel to it now.  Either Putin significantly underestimated the degree of sanctions that the world was going to universally impose on Russia or he anticipated these sanctions and is just basically going for broke.  In 1944, i could see a dictator thinking “eh we can do this on our own and don’t need the rest of the world”, but today with the level of globalization of every economy it seems almost an impossibility for a country of Russia’s size.  So how does this end?  Does China become the benefactor of Russia and helps them operate insulated from the rest of the world?  Does Putin capitulate and back off of the invasion (would the corporations return even if he did)?  Or does he just say fuck it all and goes nuclear?  One scenario of nukes making sense… Putin nuclear bombs Kiev, now the rest of the world is in an oh fuck moment right.  Here’s a guy in the 21sr century with the largest arsenal of nukes that has just shown he’s not afraid to use them.  How does the world respond to that?  Perhaps the world says ok ok let’s not trigger a worldwide Armageddon over one country, let’s back down and try to find some level of compromise with this lunatic.  Crazy times