Title: CMV: The Monarchy is an important British institution.

Post:
Obviously I’m British, but all are welcome to put their points forward. 

With the anniversary of King Charles’ coronation I thought it would be a good time to open up this debate.

I am one of the few in my social group who openly support the monarchy. I am very sympathetic with republican arguments but here are my main 5 rebuttals.


1. The cost - it’s clear a ‘back of a napkin’ calculation that simply says ‘monarchy costs x’ is insufficient. Much like our membership of the EU, it was wrong for Brexit campaigners to pretend it was purely an expenditure with no ROI. The same is true for the monarchy, whilst their cost is around £100 million per year, the tourist industry is worth £237 billion. (Data from Statista)

Granted it’s certainly not all, or even mostly, due to us having a living breathing monarchy.  But as long as more than 0.05% of tourists were influenced by this fact, it would already exceed the cost. 

That being said, many would still argue they cost more than they bring in, and my argument doesn’t cling exclusively to this…


2. Britains brand - there are undoubtedly many people in the world who know nothing about Britain other than the fact we have a king/queen. It is integral to our image and standing around the world. 

The king has long been a figurehead for environmentalism and Queen Elizabeth was a sage advisor to presidents and prime ministers across the globe. Britain is ultimately a liberalising force in an increasingly illiberal time, and the monarchies venerable experience on the world stage helps bolster this. 

3. Tradition - iconoclasticism has been in fashion for about 10 years. The British monarchy has existed for almost 1200 years. 

There seems to be an ironic culture of British exceptionalism amongst those who want to dismantle the monarchy.

We wouldn’t expect Americans to burn their Declaration of Independence (the paper itself), France to smelt the Eiffel Tower, Egyptians to bulldoze the pyramids. 

We don’t tell other cultures not to have tribal leaders, sultans or indeed their own monarchs. 

That’s because we appreciate it is part of their heritage and culture. So it is with Britain. 

We are not uniquely ‘rational’ or smarter than any other nation. We have our cultural traditions just like they do, and the monarchy is a core part of this identity. 

Sure it would probably save a few ££ to sell the Statue of Liberty for scrap. But how colourless and drab would the world be if every country dismantled their cultural heritage?

4. The head of state - Britain has a constitutional monarchy, which doesn’t exert any real power. The king is a figure head, not a ruler. 

Stephen Fry explained their virtue in the realms of politics. Unlike in the US where people hand power to one of two candidates to act as commander and chief. In Britain our growing litany of narcissists, hypocrites and idiots who become prime minister, all have to be humbled by the experience of meeting the head of state each week, bowing to him or her, and explaining their actions.

Fry rightly pointed out for a character like Boris Johnson, this act, however ceremonial, had a very important psychological impact. 

Johnson, Truss, Sunak, Starmer, unlike Biden or Trump, will be constantly reminded they are not absolute rulers. 

Personally if Trump wins I think it would do him some good to every so often bow to someone.

5. Pomp and ceremony - perhaps the most ridiculous aspect is the robes, the orbs, the sceptres and crowns. 

But is there not something deeply self reflective for a nation to periodically undergo a ritual that has been repeated throughout the generations?

Unlike many other nations, we are continuously reminded of our past, warts and all. Coronations, weddings, funerals. These are times for the nation to come together and reflect on our past, present and future.

Conclusion:
It is for these reasons I support our monarchy and would like to protect it for future generations.

Caveats:
1. I only agree with constitutional monarchies.
2. The extended royal family are pretty dubious to say the least. This is more a defence of the King and his immediate family.
3. I believe in free speech, including that of anti monarchists. People have every right campaign for the end of the monarchy, I oppose any attempts to stopping them doing this.

Top Comments:
The title of your post makes it hard for people to try to "change your view".  You can't really argue that the monarchy isn't an important British institution - it's at the heart of how the country is governed.  Since you seem to want to engage in a debate on the merits of the monarchy, maybe you should change it to something like "CMV: Abolishing the UK monarchy in favour of a republic would be a mistake".
Do you really think you need a "living, breathing monarch" to draw tourists? Getting rid of the monarchy as an establishment doesn't necessarily mean burning down Windsor castle, does it? We can all still go to the Palace of Versailles. Likewise for any number of other castles scattered throughout Europe.
Why the fuck should one family in particular have the right to a particularly luxurious life instead of other, normal people? That should be enough of a reason, strip the monarchy of their clothes and they're ugly ass meat bags like the rest of us.
I believe that in the modern world, no person should be held above others just because of the circumstances of their birth. Yes the royals are largely symbolic, but certainly not powerless. They have a lot of cultural power and even still some state power, if they choose to use it. I believe no one should be held to rule others just because they were born in a certain family. I just think that's wrong on a base level.

I'll address your counterpoints, and why I don't think any of them trump my main argument.

1. Plenty of countries without a monarchy still make a lot from tourism. There seems no way to me to say what % of that money would change if the royals were removed so I will just call the cost a wash. Definitely not a reason to keep them around, though.

2. The French Brand used to include having a king, the Russian brand included a Czar, the Chinese brand included an emperor. Brands can change. And it's not like the UK has no other cultural constants.

3. Traditions can also change. And should, when they are bad. The Eiffel Tower does not influence government in France. And talking about France when saying traditional forms of government should be preserved seems kinda silly to me.

4. Figureheads still have power. The monarch gets to give massive speeches that nearly everyone in the country watches. That's real power. And if you say that the Prime Minister needs to explain their actions to the monarch, that also sounds like some real power there. Prime Ministers should be reminded by Parliament that they are not absolute rulers - not by a literal hereditary King.

5. This is just the tradition point again. And I'll just say that celebrating a nation's past and using that to bring everyone together is not a neutral thing, and again reflects a form of power and propaganda. There is plenty of ways for citizens of the UK to recognize the good things about their country without the monarchy still in power.
> Britain has a constitutional monarchy, which doesn’t exert any real power.

Oh they absolutely do. Not nearly as much as they used to, but they have much more power and influence than your average Brit. The King gets to meet the PM once a week, a lobbyist would _kill_ to get that privilege. And why do you think Prince Andrew gets to walk away despite his involvement with Jeffrey Epstein? 

You could say that a billionaire has the same level of influence, but when the monarchy's influence is backed by public funds, it's a much tougher pill to swallow.
Do you believe that there are families chosen by a deity to rule and this divine right grants them rights and privileges that are not granted to normal citizens?


Do you believe that people's DNA can be more holy or divine then others? I get that the cultural heritage of the monarchy is important to Britains "brand" but do you actually believe that there a divinely chosen lineages that deserve special rights and privileges?


If so, why aren't we able to see or recognize this specialness. Could you determine if a hair follicle is divinely touched under a microscope.


Is it your opinion that the royal family is divinely blessed to rule and that they deserves special rights and privileges or do you believe they are normal humans who lucked into an incredible position?
UK was lucky to have nice and respectful monarchs with no despicable intentions in the recent times. You kings and queens actually did a really good job. 

This may however change at any point. Perhaps you remember the Spanish king Juan Carlos I, his shady deals, shenanigans with the Saudis, elephant hunting trips and other questionable acts. There is very little you can do against such an individual in monarchy until they decide to resign themselves. You have no real safeguards. 

So it is kinda risky. You can't vote the king out and one day, sooner or later you will get your own version of Juan Carlos.
> There seems to be an ironic culture of British exceptionalism amongst those who want to dismantle the monarchy.

> We wouldn’t expect Americans to burn their Declaration of Independence (the paper itself),

Comparing a living, active, sitting monarch in a Western "democracy" in the year 2024 to a *piece of paper* is something you're going to have to do a lot more work to justify.
Question about point 4. *The head of state - Britain has a constitutional monarchy, which doesn’t exert any real power. The king is a figure head, not a ruler.*

If you truly believe this then why not allow the removal of all power from the monarch? He could still call himself king, but would have to support himself financially and we could elect a proper head of state.
>We wouldn’t expect Americans to burn their Declaration of Independence (the paper itself)

despite the problem with this comparison (the fact that it's a document, not an ongoing institution) the declaration of Independence is still an important representation of the US, given that we are still independent from you-know-who & we celebrate this every July. 

many American monuments that do not represent our current values as a country (like those depicting Confederate generals) have been officially removed from a prominent, celebratory display & into a museum where they can be viewed critically (or, in some instances, vandalized and destroyed). many important, longstanding buildings and schools have been renamed for this reason. 

something being old and historical is a good reason to study it, commemorate it, or to preserve the history of it. but it is not a good argument to keep an active institution in place. it is normal throughout history to change and progress.