Title: CMV: If you celebrate sex workers and support their right to work in their chosen profession, it's ridiculous to shame people for hiring those same sex workers

Post:
I've seen this come up a lot lately for some reason. It seems many people who are extremely pro sex-worker's rights are vehemently anti customer-of-sex-worker. My confusion is, how do you expect them to make any money without people on the other end of the transaction? I have seen the argument made that it's the customers objectifying the workers which makes it different, but they are *literally selling their bodies as an object* so I don't see that as a valid argument.

Personally I support the rights of sex workers as well as people who employ the services of sex workers. I just don't think those two things can logically be separable.

Edit:

Some clarifying points - I'm talking about it being hypocritical to *celebrate* sex work while shaming those willing to employ them, not merely agreeing that they should have a right to do such work while holding personal convictions against it. This is not the same as supporting free speech for those who say things you disagree with.

Second, I'm talking about shaming for the mere act of employing a sex worker. Those who commit assault (sexual or otherwise), rob people, cheat on their significant other, participate in an activity they publicly condemn, etc. in the process are of course deserving of criticism, shame, and legal repercussions as the case may be, just as they would be if they committed those acts in any other situation.

Yes exploitation and shitty people exist. That's not what I'm talking about here.

No I won't call out individual people on my twitter feed for holding the views that sparked this post, I started seeing it a lot and got the impression it was a widely held view, maybe it's not.

I also made a poor choice of words in saying "they are literally selling their bodies as an object." Those who called me out for that were right to do so. What I meant was that selling the service of sex is inherently objectifying, not that they are giving up their rights as a human.

I believe I explained the delta I awarded, but if it wasn't clear - it was not for changing my overall views on the topic, but changing my view that someone couldn't reasonably have the opinion I dislike. It breaks down to societal opinions held about people based on their valuation of sex as a commodity, which applies whether it's in relation to sex work or not. It's a societal opinion I don't agree with, but it makes sense of the views I've seen from people. You should read it.

Please also read the comments I already responded to, it's not at all the same as drug dealer/drug user, cop/criminal, etc. See the gambling and littering examples I responded to.

Lastly, those claiming I have no firsthand exposure to the industry are simply wrong. I've been on both sides of it.

Top Comments:
/u/liquor_for_breakfast (OP) has awarded 1 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/li0vxa/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_if_you_celebrate_sex/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
> It seems many people who are extremely pro sex-worker's rights 

This does not exactly mean that you're pro-sex work it just means you want them to have more rights.

The most common reason why people are pro-sex rights is so those people are less vulnerable to exploitation(pimping), sexual crimes etc.

Most of them would most likely prefer to live in a world without sex work but that's harder than to make the job save for now.
I wouldn't say that I "celebrate" sex workers, any more than I celebrate dentists. I'm not sure that a lot of people would use that word, but I do support sex worker rights because I think they should be treated with respect and dignity, and should be offered the protections and safeguards that other workers enjoy.

But while I support sex workers and their right to earn a living in the way in which they choose, or in whatever way they're able, I absolutely have no problem condemning some of the clients.

First of all, you can't lump all sex work into one big bin. It runs the gamut from phone sex, to women on sites like onlyfans, who may be in complete control over what they do and when they do it, to prostitutes on the street who may have an abusive pimp and no options, to women who have been forced into the sex trade by human traffickers. ( I say women, but I do realize that the sex trade also includes men and unfortunately, children.)

Having said that, I have mixed feelings about all of it, because I feel like most people would rather do something other than sex work if they had the option, and because most sex work is rife with abuse and exploitation. But consenting adults and all that ...especially if it's in an industry like phone sex or  webcams, in which the workers may have  full control over their autonomy and safety. 

My issue is with consumers of violent pornography, and people who use marginalized prostitutes or those who may have been sex trafficked ... massage parlors come to mind. For those consumers/clients, I'm not going to say they''re horrible human beings, but I absolutely will point out that they are contributing to and perpetuating an industry that preys on and abuses vulnerable people, and they're doing so with a callous disregard for the workers' well-being. Because here's the thing: they may tell themselves that the violent or abusive pornography that they're watching is fake, and no one's really getting hurt, or the prostitute that they're visiting is a prostitute because she chose to be one, so they aren't really hurting anyone ...but how do they know? How do they know that those people weren't trafficked, or coerced, or forced, or acting out of desperation? It's hard to believe that that doesn't occur to these John's, which is why it's kind of easy to think less of them, while still supporting and respecting the workers themselves.
It depends on why you’re shaming the client. There are clients of sex workers who treat the workers horribly there’s nothing wrong with shaming those people. Same as it’s reasonable to call out people who yell at fast food employees. Doesn’t mean you shouldn’t buy fast food. Sex workers are providing a service to their clients and deserve to be treated with respect. I also personally think it’s okay to shame clients of sex workers who don’t support legalizing or destigmatizing sex work. If you’re watching porn but think that porn performers deserve to be shamed there’s nothing wrong with calling out hypocrisy. When a “family values” anti sex work politician is seen hiring a prostitute I think they should be shamed. Not because buying sex is inherently shameful but because being a hypocrite is.
I’ve been *fascinated* by sex work for 20 years and I’ve read at least 2 dozen sex worker memoirs. 

Let me tell you - every single sex worker deals with the dark side of the profession. It’s 100%, in every single instance, never empowering. Never. 

Let’s look at one of the most famous examples. Dr Brooke Magnati wrote [Diaries of a London Call Girl](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Intimate_Adventures_of_a_London_Call_Girl) - which was a best selling book (with a bestseller following book) which was made into a famous TV series starring Billie Piper. 

Yet Dr Magnati has had a bit of a sad life, really, due to her past profession. Despite being a scientific professional and best selling author she elected not to have children, as she thought they shouldn’t be subjected to her past. 

She also stated that [life as a prostitute was dangerous and degrading ](https://www.heraldscotland.com/news/12606565.dont-be-fooled-life-as-a-call-girl-is-dangerous-and-degrading/) yet she did just about as well as you possibly could from the activity (making millions from telling her story etc). 

From the many bios I’ve read, the prostitutes that make money end up blowing it almost instantly on luxury goods to make themselves feel better. Or turn to drugs to cope. 

Anyone who indicates differently is probably close to the start of their career.
I think there is a difference between rights and respect.

I personally think that sex workers and clientele are most of the time doing things for reasons that deserve (or don’t deserve) the same amount of respect. However, I also think both should be rights.

For example, I believe everyone should have the right to be able to gamble, but I don’t think gambling is a respectable profession and I might shame people away from it.

The same I would say is true of sex work and their respective clientele
Celebrating is different than believing in their rights. I believe marijuana should be legal, because that way people aren't unfairly incarcerated and because then it can be better studied and regulated. However that doesn't mean I approve of by brother smoking, since he is 21 and we _know_ it is bad for your brain before the age of 25.
Let’s compare it to recreational drugs. I support the legalization of recreational drugs, but I’m going to be anti-drug use. Why? Because I believe that people should have the freedom to use it, and that it can be used in productive ways, but that the majority of their use is going to be either abusive or an unhealthy way to cope. It’s not my job to judge someone using or abusing recreational drugs, and I can acknowledge and admire the potential physics and mental health benefits that can come from proper use, but my general stance can be in strong opposition. Additionally, I can also hold the opinion that it should be legal based purely on the fact that society normalizes and accepts and embraces alcohol use, which is arguably worse.

So, I can want sex work to be legal and serve no judgment to those who partake while also hoping that the trade isn’t actually successful. Much of the reason people turn to sex workers is for the same reasons they turn to drugs. Sometimes it can be helpful as productive while most of the time it’s arguably going to be self sabotaging. If someone wants to sell their body then so be it. If someone wants to pay for sex then so be it. I don’t want such a system to succeed because it’s success, to me, indicates that people probably aren’t taking care of themselves mentally, but I certainly don’t think that people should be arrested for paying for consensual sex. That’s absurd.
I don't think there's anything wrong with the bodega guy selling cigarettes, but I don't think smoking is great. I also don't see how there's any disconnect between these positions.
I just think you’re missing some nuance here. It’s actually perfectly reasonable that people might have different biases towards different sides of this transaction, even if you’re trying to logically reason it away.

Let’s take it to the extreme. There are girls online that will sell their spit or dirty bathwater to guys online. I’m presuming most of us (maybe not all, but most) agree that those guys are pretty pathetic. Do we think the girl is similarly pathetic? I would expect most of us do not; she is benefitting financially from the sad behavior of her customers, and perhaps there’s something to be judged there, but certainly they are not equal in this transaction in many ways. It’s basically her job, her hustle.

I’m not saying there’s such a clear difference in level of shame in your example, it’s much closer, but it’s certainly a valid scenario that people would judge one side of this type of transaction differently than another.

In this specific instance, the “argument” might be that the woman can get paid to have sex, while the man has to pay to get sex. Whether you personally think it’s logically valid or not, that is going to stir different judgements in people, and there’s certainly a reasonably logical argument to be made for it.