Title: CMV: The 'blackface episode' of Community (S02E14 "Advanced Dungeons and Dragons) isn't racist and shouldn't have been pulled.

Post:
I opened this post with a paragraph about the times we find ourselves in, but that felt too soapbox-y and so I deleted it because this actually bothers me as what feels like a unique case that was worth openly discussing/debating. Also let me just get out of the way that I don't think there is any argument to be made for Jim Crow Era bullshit and jokes on the level of blackface. To me this specific issue becomes more about changing an artistic work for the sake of public appeal to the point of censoring it. 


**Here's what got the episode pulled: the opening has the gang playing a game of Dungeons & Dragons, and Chang (an incompetently malicious nutjob) is in a full cosplay as a Drow/Dark Elf. Shirley (the African American evangelical Christian) makes the joke of 'y'all gonna ignore the obvious hate crime over here?' If you haven't seen the episode it truly looks nothing like blackface with things like exaggerated lips or nose caricatures, it's a silver wig and elf ears and I'm pretty sure CGI that makes his whole body dark black like that Vantablack pigment that absorbs light. The entire actual (nerdy) joke is that this is in fact just cosplay of a real race in the world of DnD which fleshed out lore and Chang is just leaning hard into his character, to comic effect when his character gets unceremoniously murdered right as the first encounter happens. Shirley misunderstanding his intention is the set up, but there is no joke about POC here. However the implication alone was enough to lose access to one of the best episodes of the entire Community run.**

I was fortunate to grow up in a very diverse community and work with some incredible people from all walks of life, I'm a registered independent but across the board liberal in my feelings on human rights and Healthcare and not turning the planet into an Easy-Bake Oven. I am white, and so one of the first things I had to accept as a kid was I can't completely understand how POC or minorities feel when they are discriminated against or made an outsider/'less-than' via dehumanizing 'jokes' a la Jewish space lasers and other crackpot gateway bs. I may immediately see why Native American warchief headdress and 'redskins' are extremely offensive while not really getting the hate over Jeep Cherokee, such is the limitation of my own culture. I know that seeing 'different' people as equal is only part of the story, and that there is a lot more to not just institutional biases but also subconscious discrimination and psychological mechanisms. Like Kyle jokes on South Park, 'I finally get it! I don't get it.'  I only throw all of this into the mix in an attempt to keep the focus on what seems to be a highly unusual and unique case to me, and to preemptively answer any generalizations you may feel tempted to make about someone making a post like this. 


So bottom line there is no argument here for continuing to support artists with edgy racial jokes or rape culture, and there is an even stronger case against individual artists still profiting from their art in order to pursue their outrageous behavior, like Roman Polanski or Woody Allen or the author of Ruroni Kenshin (dude caught a fine for his CP collection and the manga continues serialization today).

But as a general rule of thumb,  I don't think tv or movies that 'didn't age well' belong in the same camp as something like confederate flag culture or slave owner statues, not least of all because the audience generally has to choose to engage with the art. I hate to find myself sounding like some of the folks yelling censorship at every business or government decision (looking at you anti vaxxers, nobody's looking at you flat earthers bc we've just given up on your lot).

These works still have plenty of cultural value, and it's perfectly fine and even desirable to be able to look at it and go, 'society had a long way to go, this was a big deal to make light of, etc.' As a matter of fact, I looked at this episode and thought there probably is a dumb kid out there who got his ass saved in cosplay because someone knew he was a Drow, not some neonazi parading around in a shitty high fantasy blackface costume. 

When every streaming service nukes an episode without warning, when they even renumber their seasons to make it impossible to notice, it is akin to censoring the artists and changing its impact by neutering any possible enjoyment or discussion of it. And it was all for a joke that wasn't actually a blackface or race joke. Idk where the line is in the slippery slope argument, but I'm pretty sure this is overshooting it.

Maybe there's a side I'm not seeing? CMV.

Edit: so I think there are some good points being discussed here! I'm working through them all. To clarify my own position a little I one hundred percent understand the financial and practical incentive for the removal, businesses do business. it's the justification for why viewers want it. I think part of what makes the argument so relevant now is that this isn't the age of TV censoring for the whole household at that hour, this is the age of streaming and deliberate consumer choice and parental controls for the saavy.

A couple of things I want to pose to the group:

*Would individual warnings on the episode, doing some type of 13 reasons why acknowledgement, etc. be considered as enough acknowledgement of the issue? Or is it just too offensive once flagged this way? 

*Would it be different if this was irl vs a scripted scene? As in, is it a misunderstanding/humorous situation if it happens organically, but immediately racist because it was written by a writer to create the scene, therefore the racial component they utilized poisons the whole thing? To me that just seems like you can't let art say anything about real parts of real life then. 

*Would it still be offensive or seen as blackface if Shirley wasn't there to say 'hate crimes' that sets up the parallel?

*Are all depictions of dark skin tones in cosplay racist also? Does it matter if it's makeup vs masks and costumes? To me this is where execution matters. Do you look like something out of my nightmares or World of Warcraft, or do you look like some average schmuck who moonlights in Jim Crow plays?

Top Comments:
/u/rockytop24 (OP) has awarded 4 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/lxm289/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_the_blackface_episode_of/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
Honestly speaking, I don't agree with any of these episodes/scenes being pulled, either for community, it's always sunny in philadelphia, 30 rock, or the US office.

But I think your misconception comes from your belief in *why* these things are getting pulled. They're not being pulled because they're racist, or because any specific person thinks they're racist. 

These episodes either with blackface or some kind of allusion to blackface like community, is purely because broadcasting companies or streaming serviced want to be seen to be doing *something*. 

I might sound cynical but it's purely so that Netflix can say "look how good we are guys, we're removing all these things that some hypothetical person might one day be offended by".

They're not removed because they are racist, or because of any person in particular. They're removed so that the corporate entity can slap their face on the news and say "we're one of the good guys trust us!"

Because of the above, it makes absolute sense to pull the community episode from the perspective of the streaming service.
> The entire actual (nerdy) joke is that this is in fact just cosplay of a real race in the world of DnD which fleshed out lore and Chang is just leaning hard into his character

I think there's another layer to the joke that you're maybe missing. The joke is that, even though yes it's character-accurate, any reasonable person would understand dressing up in blackface *at all* in a social no-no, even if your intentions aren't malicious.

So the joke is that Chang is so socially stunted and unaware of social norms regarding racial sensitivity. It's actually a joke that I think would work better with Pierce, but it's funnier if Chang does it because it's derived not just from Chang's social unawareness, but also from his desire to be accepted by going all-in on the group activity (something Pierce would never do... as the episode shows pretty clearly).
As a Jewish person and member of the community, I can tell you that nobody felt ‘dehumanized’ by the space lasers.

That shit was hilarious.

I’ve met people who looked for horns on my head, and asked what happened to them, after saying I’m jewish. Also not dehumanizing. 

If someone not Jewish plays a Jew in a movie, and dresses up as such, nobody considers it racist. Pianist was a great movie
then issue is that so much of the shows humor comes from pierce "look at the old racist boomer and laugh" and all that shit is still in the show but this isnt. its just pandering, if racisms was the issue every episode with pierce as the lead would be banned to, its just virtue signaling.

&#x200B;

i felt community handed the problem of generational racism better than any show. pierce is unappolagacly racist in and old timey way while not showing open hatred toward people just rude dismissal. The gang either mock or scold him for it but don't hate him as a person. they try to help him improve but know that as a 65+ guys he's not changing much. its more realistic.