Title: CMV: PragerU should not be allowed to call itself a "university."

Post:
[PragerU](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PragerU) is an American media company that specializes in producing propaganda for the [American conservative ideology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conservatism_in_the_United_States#:~:text=Conservatism%20in%20the%20United%20States%20is%20a%20political%20and%20social,%2C%20protectionism%2C%20anti%2Dcommunism%2C). Their YouTube channel has over 2.85 million subscribers and their videos are (collectively) viewed billions of times each year. Their content is far from the political center, even ([arguably](https://www.splcenter.org/hatewatch/2018/06/07/prageru%E2%80%99s-influence)) extreme and far right, and often fails to pass [the most basic scrutiny](https://bridge.georgetown.edu/research/factsheet-prageru/) (in terms of factual references and logical conclusions).

They should not be allowed to use the term "university" in their name.

(EDIT 2: Uh . . . wow. Okay, I knew this would be a controversial topic but I wasn't expecting *this* kind of response. For the sake of authenticity, I'm not going to change anything already written here. It's clear that my initial argument wasn't as strong as I could have made it. Instead, I want to provide clarification below. Anything after the EDIT notes is new(ish) material.)

(Many thanks for the awards and as I stated yesterday, I will try to get around to giving deltas in the comments. I consider any slight change in my perspective as being worth the recognition, including just offering clarification on something.)

My argument rests on three key considerations:

1. The word carries a specific connotation, that of a respected institution dedicated to the advancement of knowledge and learning in the world. By using this word in the title of their organization, Prager is creating a positive association between their platform and an officially recognized institution of higher education. (Although the organization specifically states they are not a university, nor have they ever claimed to be, this is partly a lie by virtue of their use of the term. In other words, why use the word if they're not trying to communicate a specific message about their status as a platform for spreading media content, "education" (i.e. rhetoric) and propaganda?)
2. There exists a process by which a higher education center can be given the title of "university." This process is a self-policing one, as the organizations responsible for assigning (and reviewing) accreditation status are independent (i.e. civilian-based) and are only beholden to the government in specific instances. In theory, an organization can establish standards for certifying an institution as a university while failing to meet the government's criteria and their process would be acceptable on the basis that they're consistent and independent from the universities they certify. (Most accreditation organizations actively work to meet the government's standards because running a university is something of a business and the government guarantees cash flow in the form of student loans; yet a certifying body that fails to meet this criteria could still theoretically function in its primary role.)
3. If we consider other organizations with "official" terms in their titles, we find that one cannot simply give themselves the name without having the proper certification or backing. There are no civilian police or firefighting organizations, for instance; likewise, a hospital must meet strict standards before it can call itself a hospital. Allowing the opposite only harms public trust in these institutions and make it harder for the official organizations to provide their service.

I am not advocating for restricting an individual's or organization's freedom of expression. This is not an anti-free speech position. Rather, I'm saying that certain institutions are deserving of respect and a position of importance in our society, and that a person or organization should not label themselves as one of these institutions without first meeting criteria established by an independent body composed of members from that professional field.

PragerU does not claim to be a university and does not offer degrees, but those facts are buried in their resources; they're not made front and center in their presentation of themselves to the public. They know what they're doing: they're using the title "university" to create an association in the public's mind, however small or tenuous, as a means to bolster their arguments and help spread their propaganda. This harms public trust in actual universities (and in the value of obtaining a university degree); it's deceitful and misleading; and since PragerU admits to not having obtained accreditation, they should not be allowed to use the word as part of their name.\*

(side note: I believe this standard should apply to all organizations that fail to meet accreditation standards, regardless of the education or services they provide. I also believe we should establish stricter standards for organizations that wish to add "News" to their title, in an effort to reinforce public trust in journalism.)

Change my view.

EDIT: Many excellent points have been brought up so far and I thank you all for the discussion. I have other obligations for the evening but I shall return to review and award deltas as appropriate.  (I suspect there's more than a few deserving below).

\*Also, I want to make a clarification: my statement about Prager not making their "not a university" status apparent is based on my first exposure to the organization. I can see now that it's easier than I recall to determine that they're not, in fact, an institution to be taken seriously.

However . . . I have personal experience with friends and family who do take them seriously, and I find this very disturbing (for many reasons, yes, but mainly because no one should be quoting them in a serious discussion).

EDIT 2: ok, here goes . . .

First, "anyone who would think PragerU is a real university is . . ." If we take this in the best possible light, it means that Prager is *obviously* not a real university in the same way that Brazzers is *obviously* not a place for higher education.

This does not excuse the fact that Prager is holding itself out to be some sort of educational institute. If you search for "PragerU" in Google, the second hit is to the Wikpedia page, which explains that the name is short for "Prager University." When you go to their YouTube page, the design and aesthetics, coupled with the use of the word "university" in their name, suggests that the channel belongs to a legitimate university and is being provided as a free educational service for the general public.

If we go to Prager's site, specifically their "about" page, we find this:

>Prager University is the world's leading conservative nonprofit that is focused on changing minds through the creative use of digital media. 

Doesn't say they're *not* a proper university, does it?

Yes, I understand, there is a "disclaimer" of sorts that we can find through their webpage . . . but the point is that it isn't necessarily easy to find. I realize that many people in these comments were able to find this information . . . but some people admitted to having trouble with it. Some people admitted to thinking that PragerU is the forward facing campaign for a legitimate university. Personally, yes, I thought they were legit when I first learned of them, though I quickly discovered that they're not by checking out reviews of their content . . . *but that's the point*. Not enough people in this world are so diligent as to *not* be taken in by this deception.

Second, I see comparisons made to "Marxist universities" and "leftist news organizations" and . . . let's try to understand these concerns from a position of good faith.

Marxism is an economic philosophy that (very, very, *very* generally) teaches us that the product of labor should belong directly to the people who labored. That's it. That's the philosophy.

Granted, yes, there's more to Marxism than that. There's at least a dozen philosophical branches, possibly more if we account for all the ways Marxism can intersect with other philosophies, or with political science, sociology, psychology, history, etc. In other words, we can't treat the comparison between Prager and "Marxist universities" as worth exploring unless we first define our terms; and so far, I haven't seen a definition, so I'm left to work with what I know: that "Marxist universities" is a piece of rhetoric designed to scare people into thinking they're going to be forced to . . . do something . . . bad, I guess.

It's worth noting that the question, "what about University X? Should they be required to drop the word from their title?" is easily answered with: yes. In order to implement a standard, by which one governing body is able to restrict the use of a given word in a very narrow and specific application, we'd have to have reasonable standards in place. Anyone who doesn't meet those standards could be subject to sanctions or fines, or perhaps another form of punishment. Frankly, the exact actions taken against an offender are immaterial; what matters is that *some* action is allowed.

(I will grant, to those who have delved into the specifics, that it's possible *no* such action can be seen as practical or reasonable. We can't know that for certainty without taking the time to explore, of course, and what I'm ultimately advocating for is a declaration of intent: that we, as a society, value the use of this term in a specific context and thus, we will put forth the effort to limit its abuse.)

Regarding the comparison to news organizations, we should realize that it was included in the original post as an example of how professional organizations can (and probably should) exist for more groups than we currently have. I'm perfectly comfortable with an independent civilian governing body that defines standards for journalistic work, that reviews the work of various news organizations, and that issues sanctions or reprimands against those orgs that claim to be producing news-related content, but in fact fail to meet the minimum professional standards. Yes, I realize it'd be difficult to implement such a program. Yes, I realize there's the possibility for abuse. But these are statements about *how* we go about achieving a goal. They are not statements about *if* we should bother with that goal in the first place.

Third, there is the point that no such governing body currently exists; that is to say, if we were to try and restrict the use of the word "university," we'd have to create a professional civilian group that is responsible for defining standards and enforcing them. This is true. I did not specify the need to create such a body in my original points above. This is also true. Consider this an amendment: I believe we should have a governing body, possibly the accreditation system that already exists, be responsible for assessing an institution's status as a university and for levying sanctions against those who do not meet the requirements yet insist on calling themselves one.

(It was also pointed out that, since such a civilian group already exists *and* they've chosen not to go down this route, there's probably some good reasons behind that choice. I can accept this, though I'd be curious to understand what those reasons are.)

Naturally, this brings up two questions: who should be required to remove the word from their title and how do we prevent other words from being adopted in their place?

For instance, should we consider *Hamburger University* to be inappropriate? What about *Brazzers University*? As stated, I'm okay with the idea that McDonald's can't use the term because, although they offer a professional development program, it doesn't translate to the university system; and if they change their program to meet the proper standards, then they can use the title. The latter, however, falls into the legal status of fair use or parody. That is also something that would have to be hammered out and would probably fall on the side of the "free speech" argument. Since there's no real harm involved with a deli on your local campus calling itself *University Lunch*, there's no foul in allowing them to use the word.

And this brings us to the fourth major argument against this change: that Prager is doing nothing wrong.

For this, I want to set aside the political divide, as it's really not germane. The issue I take with Prager \~ and with any organization that does the same thing Prager is doing \~ is their claim to possess knowledge and to be educating people, without providing sufficient evidence to back up those claims. And this is not something I'm making up out of thin air. This comes from looking at responses to Prager's videos, like this one about [how Prager misleads their audience about the Southern Strategy](https://twitter.com/KevinMKruse/status/996386257109508096), this one about [how Prager uses specific rhetoric and presentation techniques to make themselves appear legitimate](https://youtu.be/LH8MNJspg4k) (i.e. believable) when they're not, or this one about [how Prager lies about climate change](https://climatefeedback.org/evaluation/video-from-prageru-makes-several-incorrect-and-misleading-claims-about-climate-change-richard-lindzen/). You can easily find more by searching online for "debunking PragerU" or "PragerU response" (or similar terms).

As stated, the issue is not the political positions that Prager takes. It's how they present their ideas and their "information." If there's a left-leaning organization that's doing the exact same thing \~ calling themselves a university for the air of respectability it provides while simultaneously spreading misinformation, disinformation and lies to the general public \~ then yes, *obviously* they should be required to drop the "university" from their title.

The specific harm involved is the promulgation of misleading information. How we interpret information is subject to debate. The conclusions we draw from the facts at hand, is something we should discuss. But the underlying facts themselves should not be subject to obfuscation, misdirection, or outright lies.

Unfortunately, being that Prager is located in America and it's not actually a fascist state \~ despite what persons at either extreme might say \~ it's simply not practical or desirable to limit their freedom to misinform, misdirect or lie. Fortunately, *nobody is arguing that*. Prager is allowed to voice their opinions or conclusions, based on the data they have at hand or the arguments they craft in support of their ideas; and I do not wish to take that away from them.

What I *am* saying is that America should treat universities as deserving of a higher social status than they currently possess, at least insofar as the use of the title is concerned.

Top Comments:
/u/SimonTVesper (OP) has awarded 5 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/kh1ysh/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_prageru_should_not_be/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
Is college an ok term to use instead? What about institute of fact or knowledge? University isnt the only word that would have to be censored if this became a thing and at some point you would have to draw a line. Heres a few loophole titles they could use

Prager college of facts

Prager genius association

Prager school of thought 

Prager institute of scholars

Any of those names can trick people into believing they are a upright institute that is equivilent to a university
> PragerU does not claim to be a university and does not offer degrees, but those facts are buried in their resources 

I have never, not once, been to this site before. I just searched "prageru" from your title and clicked on the link. This was my first time, so I started not even knowing what the site looked like or how it was organized. But right at the bottom of the page where I always scroll to for information about an organization itself, because that's where it usually is:

>PRAGER UNIVERSITY IS NOT AN ACCREDITED ACADEMIC INSTITUTION AND DOES NOT OFFER CERTIFICATIONS OR DIPLOMAS. BUT IT IS A PLACE WHERE YOU ARE FREE TO LEARN. 

I was literally on the page two seconds before I saw this. That's not very "buried in their resources."
OP, I agree with a lot of the logic in your post but not the conclusion you reach. I agree that some words need to have a protected status in order to preserve their legitimacy (for example, you cannot hold yourself out to be a lawyer or a realtor without being part of a professional organization which regulates and governs the profession). However, all those examples work because they are protecting very specific jobs, and maintain a narrow meaning to those words. In those cases, free speech is being (slightly) limited, but the benefits are substantial and most reasonable people would agree that thr tradeoff is worthwhile.

As others have pointed out, "university" is just one of many words can can be used to suggest intellectual rigor, and Prager would just move onto another word if you try and contrain the use of "university". The harm you are trying to prevent (PragerU misrepresenting themselves as intellectually honest instead of a right-wing ideolog factory) wouldn't go away, but the "cost" of reducing free speech would remain.
The first part of your post includes apparent ideological differences between you and PragerU, but your reasoning is purely based on terminology, accreditation, etc... if so, why include the first part?  While not a conservative myself I can definitely say PragerU is pretty mainstream conservatism and not what I would consider “far right”.  Labeling everything conservative “far-right” doesn’t help and can both devalue that type of terminology when applied to legitimately far right groups.  It also gives a vibe of the true reasoning for your opinion is ideological, which then lead you to make the points to support your ideological opposition.

Regardless, using your reasoning would you support a universal ban of using university by anyone unaccredited?  For example I watched a video series on YouTube titled “D’Amore Engineering University Video Series” that explained some electrical and math concepts.  Would you ban that as well?  It is not uncommon for people to make educational videos/articles titled “X University”, which I understand to mean that they are going to give educational content, but I’ve never mistakenly took this content as going to an actual university, nor do I suspect hardly anyone would.  I just want to clarify if you would want to hold these to the same standard and ban their use of the word university.

If your answer is yes, then do you want to government to do it?  What would enforcement and penalties look like?

If no then can we at least be honest and say it’s because you don’t like the content?
Not allowed....by whom? What organization do you see giving the power to tell PragerU they have to change their name?
To be clear, you’re advocating for a federal government regulation about which organizations are allowed to use the word “university”?
I'm going to review some of the main problems that other people have exposed with your view and then raise my own criticism at the end.

> PragerU does not claim to be a university and does not offer degrees, but those facts are buried in their resources

This was shown to be false [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/comments/kgy3jj/cmv_prageru_should_not_be_allowed_to_call_itself/ggicgou/). The front page of their website says that they are not an accredited university. But you moved the goalposts by saying that "some" people are not "able" to find it (with no evidence). The standard is now that PragerU is a problem if *some* people believe PragerU is a university, regardless of how reasonable that belief is and regardless of how many people hold that belief.

Also, you contradicted yourself by [saying](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/comments/kgy3jj/cmv_prageru_should_not_be_allowed_to_call_itself/ggif1a0/) that *Hamburger University* should not be allowed to call themselves a university without meeting certain criteria because it "cheapens the whole concept of higher and continuing education" and also [saying](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/comments/kgy3jj/cmv_prageru_should_not_be_allowed_to_call_itself/ggidxc0/) that *Eating University* could be an exemption to your rule because it could be "reasonably understood" as a parody. So it's not even clear that you're using consistent standards for your view. However, even though these are contradictory claims, both of the justifications you gave for these two claims actually weaken your main view:

1. Let's assume you believe that organizations like Hamburger University should *not* be allowed because it "cheapens the whole concept of higher and continuing education". Firstly, there is no evidence that *Hamburger University* cheapens the concept of higher education. At best, what you could argue is that *Hamburger University* cheapens the authority we give to the term "university". But not only is this a good thing (people *should* know that "university" does not denote authority, because it doesn't), it also weakens your view. The fact that the meaning of "university" is cheapened means that fewer people will believe "PragerU" is a legitimate university simply by virtue of its title.
2. Let's assume you believe that organizations like Hamburger University *should* be allowed to use the term "university" because it can be "reasonably understood" that they are a parody. Then you need to explain why PragerU can't be "reasonably understood" to not be an accredited university. Just to repeat what I've said elsewhere: It seems to me that PragerU could also reasonably be understood to not be an accredited university because (1) we already know that use of the term "university" does not denote accreditation (e.g., Hamburger University), (2) the front page of PragerU's website says that it is not an accredited university, (3) a quick Google search indicates that PragerU is not an accredited university, and (4) PragerU does not purport to provide degrees, course enrollment, certification, or any of the other crucial services associated with legitimate universities.

Lastly, just to address the comparison with police officers, hospitals, etc. The difference between these kinds of organizations and PragerU is that (1) police officers, hospitals, etc. perform life-saving services which can result of death or serious injury if people are misled about their legitimacy and (2) people require services by police officers, hospitals, etc. often in split-second and highly stressful situations where people do not have time to research the legitimacy of any given organization. Because of these two reasons, we have strong reason to reserve the term "police" or "hospital" for *legitimate* institutions. But neither of these reasons apply to PragerU. PragerU is not purporting to perform life-saving services, nor do people require the "services" purportedly offered by PragerU in split-second or highly stressful situations. PragerU provides 5-10 minute clips of right-winged political commentary. They are not purporting to provide a service that is essential to society. As you mention, if we allow anyone to call themselves a "police" or "hospital", this can "make it harder for the official organizations to provide their service". That's true when it comes to police and hospitals. But there's no evidence that PragerU is making it harder for legitimate universities to provide their services.

Now, it might be true that PragerU spreads harmful conspiracy theories that lead to deaths, violence, etc. Insofar as this is true (I'm not sure if it is true), that's reason to ban the promotion of these conspiracy theories (as many countries already do). But this has nothing to do with their use of the term "university". If such such conspiracy theories are sufficiently harmful, they should be banned regardless of whether the organization calls themselves a "university". Such content should be banned even if they called themselves "Prager Institute".