Title: CMV: Modern democracy has no instruments to overcome crisis caused by propaganda

Post:
In his book "Principles for a free society" Dr. Nigel Ashford states that basic right for free speech is imperative for existence of institutions that together form what we understand as modern western democracy/free society. He argues that even though some people will always look to exploit this right to spread propaganda or to promote other ideologies, truth (and democracy) will always win by being innately more convincing.

However, over the last hundred years (especially with wide spread of accessible internet), propaganda and fake news are easier, cheaper to produce (since 'real' journalism takes more effort) and spreads faster (emplays sensationalism, appeals to emotions, can be shaped to abuse social media algorithms etc).

Problem is already here, and modern western free world did not come up with an answer in time. This will lead to huge shifts in our understanding of what sofiety should be and how it should function, and no changes we can expect will come for better.

Help me to change my view!

EDIT: Thank you every one for your answers!

People keep suggesting state guaranteed education as a remedy for propaganda, so I decided to answer this argument in the post body.

While basic levels of education and critical thinking can work against blatant propaganda, there are counterpoints:

* State can (and often will) provide opportunities for education to form critical thinking, but can't force people to educate themselves. As soon as any form of obligation gets introduced to educatory system, people in power will always try to use it for propaganda instead.
* No level of education makes person absolutely immune to propaganda, methodology for which grows better
* Having education does not equate to having critical thinking. There are limited options to assess quality of the former and none for the latter


Top Comments:
I think there is a tool that we could use, though modern democracies have not yet adopted it to a significant degree. I am talking about sortition, the selection of representatives by random sampling. Contrary to popular belief, ancient Athenian democracy was conducted primarily not through voting, but through sortition. The Athenians understood that elections were inherently favorable to oligarchy. The public is easy to mislead because each individual person spends only a small amount of mental energy on political questions. People have their own jobs and lives, they can't be expected to research every issue carefully. 

In modern times, the only major use of sortition was in the 2012 Irish constitutional convention, where 40% of the delegates were selected at random. Canada and Denmark have used non-binding random citizen assemblies to offer recommendations however. In Canada, the provinces used sortition to form committees to recommend alternative voting systems, which the public would then choose to adopt or reject by referendum. The committees recommended very well-regarded systems like single transferable vote and mixed-member proportional, but amid a campaign of misinformation, the public ultimately chose to stay with FPTP, the worst voting system. 

The problem with elections is that the incentives of elected officials often don't align with those of the public. Their incentive is to get reelected, which means flashy policies with short term benefits are more likely to get enacted than more far-sighted ones. Politicians also have to constantly worry about the media intentionally spinning their actions to create a false narrative. Not to mention they need donors to support their campaigns, and special interest groups to mobilize their voters.

If you select a large enough sample of random people, you can be confident that your sample will be representative, though of course you don't want to go too large for logistics reasons. Committees selected by sortition are free to act without most of the constraints that elected politicians face, and we can be confident that their incentives align with the public because they are the public. And of course, unlike members of the voting public, they're paid to spend time carefully researching and considering the issues. I'm not saying we should replace all our legislatures with randomly selected committees, but it's something we could incorporate into our democratic systems to overcome the power of modern propaganda. 
There's a concept called [defensive democracy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defensive_democracy?wprov=sfla1). It's not widespread among democratic countries, but it's used. For example, the Israeli supreme court outlawed an extreme right-wing part in '88 citing racism as the reason.

This tool was implemented because of the belief that democracy can be taken down "from within" and that it's a necessary evil to limit some freedoms in order to prevent this from happening.
We do have instruments to overcome propaganda and fake news.

They're just not very popular instruments.  You stamp out fake news with critical thinking, education, respecting intellectuals, and keeping current with the world around you by reading materials written by respected members of legitimate establishment.

Now... are there people out there who are too stupid to know the difference between a respected intellectual vs. a dipshit with a blog?  Yes.  Are there people out there who aren't educated enough to make informed decisions?  Yes.  Are there people out there who lack the IQ to consistently perform quality critical thinking?  You betcha.

The hope would be that "most" people are eventually going to see past the bullshit, and that the truth will eventually win out.

I'd argue that it does, in most cases.  That's not to say that there won't be some horse shit that sometimes slides through the cracks... and that's not to say that we won't get certain things wrong from time to time.  

If you're truly concerned about this issue, you only *really* have two choices:

1. Fascism

2. Promoting education, literacy, critical thinking.
The point of a democracy where you have "one man, one vote" is that it doesn't MATTER why someone votes a certain way, because it's not for me to tell you what's a "good reason" for you to vote the way you do, or what's a valid reason.  You have whatever reasoning you want, and however you came to that conclusion is every bit as valid as how I came to mine, even if we don't agree.  That's the essence of democracy.
> However, over the last hundred years  propaganda and fake news are easier, cheaper to produce

It has also become much easier to debunk and dismiss. The wider accessibility of information also makes it more likely (not less likely) that the entire education of the public can be subtly controlled by an unchallenged propaganda machine.

It's a little like comparing a world where only the King prints a newspaper to a world where there are dozens of private newspapers. Yes, in the latter world there will be more "fake news",  ideological pandering, and appeals to emotion... but that is exactly the kind of environment that protects against propagandistic control.
This is an interesting proposition you raise, however modern democracy *does* have the instruments, in the form of education, the teaching of critical thinking, limits on spending in election campaigns, and regulation off broadcast media to require balanced political coverage. Many democracies retain these kind of instruments, even if the U.S has weakened theirs.
The fact that we have so many news sources is a check against propaganda or misinformation. Have you even heard the phrase "The room is smarter than the smartest person in it." That's why *ask the audience* on *Who Want's to be a Millionaire* is typically better than when they call their friend who is an "expert."

If anything propaganda was much easier to flourish when there was only 1 or 2 news sources available to most people.
>...innately more convincing...

Incomplete. What he should have said is 

'innately more convincing to an *informed* population. ' 

I guess we have to forgive him for that because democracy fundamentally is only intended to work as advertised for a rational informed population that will take decisions in their best interest. Since this assumption is not fully satisfied, the failure of democracy is unsurprisingly inevitable.
You are here. 

This is the defense against propaganda. 

Free Exchange of Ideas with the goal of learning and truth (and maybe some internet points). 

While the internet is a great way to for propaganda to propagate, it is also a great way to combat propaganda. 
“Fake news” has been around for centuries, and has proliferated much more profusely in nations without free speech. Propaganda is much more wide spread and effective with a strong central body controlling it. 

While the internet makes “fake news” more accessible and distributable, so does it make “real journalism” more accessible and distributable to the masses. 

The age of information is marked by an increase of news, both reputable or otherwise, but it is incumbent upon the consumer to research their news (which is easier with the plethora of information available). That beats being spoon fed one narrative any time.


Edit: there —> their