Title: CMV: The right to bear arms and free speech are inalienable human rights.

Post:
I’ll keep it short and sweet. 

Two most inalienable human rights are the right to bear arms (protect oneself) and free speech. 

All throughout human history it shows the slippery slope of taking away the right to defend yourself. I can give over 100 examples since the dawn of humanity. 

I don’t understand the POV of gun control and wish to learn how it would be effectively enforced without the government overreaching on an individuals rights. I see it as very dangerous when I see someone who wants to “ban all guns”.

I’ll hang up and listen.

Top Comments:
Criminals are not allowed the right to have guns therefore even by American standards the right to arms is not inalienable (can't be taken away).
>I don’t understand the POV of gun control and wish to learn how it would be effectively enforced without the government overreaching on an individuals rights.

It's about responsibility. Governments in other countries are not taking away anyone's right to defend themselves and people are allowed to purchase certain types of firearms. 

It's just that those people are also ready to prove they will be responsible with that firearm. By allowing themselves to be certified, by proving that they are capable of handling that gun (there is a certificate with an expiration date), by providing a space where that gun will be stored (somewhere, where unlicensed family members, or, god forbid, children, will not have access to it). Pulling it out and waving it around in public is out of the question. 

In my view, having constant access to a tool that's literally designed to take lives isn't a right, but a privilege. Unless you can prove you are an outstanding citizen, you don't get to have that privilege. 

I understand that the USA is dangerous and that sometimes people might genuinely fear for their life in their own home. But I also think that instead of pushing for more guns, Americans should be pushing for a safer country, somewhere, where one wouldn't need those guns.
We all agree that there are [limits to free speech](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_of_speech#Limitations) right? Fire in a theater, "fighting words", slander, lying under oath, and so on. 

Why, if this is the case, are there no limits to the right to bear arms? So, can anyone have any weapon at any time? Can I get a Javelin? Just for squirrels? 

In other words, what makes the "right" to bear arms unique in that it stands alone among rights as being without limit or restriction?
Why do you want your opinion changed? How much do you want your opinion changed? If you want it badly enough, just go live any amount of time in literally every developed nation outside the US, and you'll immediately see the benefits of not giving a gun to every schmuck and psycho. 

It's always so weird to me when people defend the uses of arming everyone, when guns are so obviously a tool with which it's very difficult to do good, but very easy to do evil. Statistically, it's a crap idea. Just travel a little, and it'll immediately become obvious.
>All throughout human history it shows the slippery slope of taking away the right to defend yourself. I can give over 100 examples since the dawn of humanity.

Does this also include cases when arming your supporters helped you create tyranny? How about situations where there was no slippery slope; ie., what are the odds of a slippery slope occurring?

>I don’t understand the POV of gun control and wish to learn how it would be effectively enforced without the government overreaching on an individuals rights. I see it as very dangerous when I see someone who wants to “ban all guns”.

Think about it this way; if the right creates a binary where any gun control = slippery slope to take all my guns, isn't banning all guns the only option anyway?
Luckily for the purpose of this conversation, the UN established [a universal declaration of human rights](https://www.un.org/en/about-us/universal-declaration-of-human-rights) and owning a sniper rifle isn't one of them.

Which begs the question of what would be an adequate counter argument to change your view?

99% of personal security is attained by creating and maintaining civil societies, and not allowing private warlords to collect an arsenal adequate to defeat it.
One could question the idea of whether "inalianable human rights" actually exist. After all, if they really were inalianable, they wouldn't need defending.

In nature, there is clearly no such thing. "The strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must". And it's often the case for humans. "Rights" are something we created to avoid this scenario, but they have a pretty clear creation date, they're not something that always existed. They can also take different forms depending on the interests and needs of whoever is defending or imposing them.

As such, I think it's valid to try and argue that certain rights might not be useful or fair. For instance the nobility in France had the "right" to not pay taxes, something people opposed in the French Revolution.

This doesn't mean those rights aren't useful or just. It just means you have to argue them on their own merits.
> I can give over 100 examples since the dawn of humanity.

I don't believe you.  Give 101 examples in your reply to this comment.  Or, if you were lying, then don't.
All rights are related to the material conditions of society. For example, the right to bear arms wouldn't make sense inside a space craft or an early space colony. It would be deemed too dangerous and we would not permit people to carry weapons that could easily kill everyone. Free speech can also be viewed in the same way, although it is harder to find good examples of when it would actually be appropriate beyond very specific instances of safety.

However, I want to push back on the idea that these safeguard against tyranny because I don't think they really do. My primary example would be the United States. The USA habitually oppresses its own citizens even though they have the most firearms per capita of any country. Your land can be taken away if it is deemed beneficial to the state. Your right to a fair trial can be deemed irrelevant when it comes to the appeals process. The list goes on. Ultimately, if the large majority of the population doesn't care about you enough to fight back, both violently and nonviolently, it doesn't really matter how many guns you have. I mean, look at the various tribes throughout America.