Title: CMV: Hate Speech exists and is not mutually exclusive with Free Speech

Post:
If you agree that there is such a thing as hate, then you must necessarily agree that there is such a thing as hateful.

Hate speech: abusive or threatening speech or writing that expresses prejudice against a particular group, especially on the basis of race, religion, or sexual orientation.

We can acknowledge hate speech without legally restricting free speech. Acknowledging hate speech is not necessarily the same as advocating for or implementing laws that would restrict hate speech.

I believe that those who refuse to acknowledge that hate speech exists generally do so because they fear that by acknowledging it, they're giving a foothold to laws (and to a lesser extent policies by private entities) to ban certain speech. 

Raising the point "but who decides what is hate speech?" doesn't actually disprove the existence of hate speech. 

Appealing to the "free market place of ideas" doesn't disprove the existence of hate speech (and doesn't even guarantee that good ideas prevail over bad ideas. Good ideas being ones that have integrity and/or facilitate some goal and bad ideas being ones that lack integrity and/or don't facilitate some goal, or worse, is counter productive. By integrity I just mean ideas that are honest, rational, and objective).


We can more or less objectively evaluate whether some speech is hateful or not (both by looking at the connotation/definitions/context of the speech, but especially by observing the consequences). What speech should be banned, by who, where, when, why, and how is a different conversation. 

And if you must know, here is *my* position on free speech. I think it is very useful to think of free speech as generally the lesser of two evils (that is free speech for all, or free speech for some or no one). That is, I think a society that has free speech is generally better than one that doesn't, but I also acknowledge that free speech has a cost itself. 


After all, it's ridiculous to deny that speech has no consequences for society/individuals, if such were the case we would not ever desire to see the rise or decline of certain ideas. If enough people have hate for a group in society, it stands to reason that there will be increasingly adverse consequences for that group as hate for them increases (though the exact details depends on their position and numbers, as well as the position and numbers of those who hate them). 

It should be obvious, but I think a society with less hate speech is better as well.

Top Comments:
>We can more or less objectively evaluate whether some speech is hateful or not (both by looking at the connotation/definitions/context of the speech, but especially by observing the consequences)

We feel as though we can *right now*, but what we deem as being appropriate/acceptable for society changes quite often.

The same things we think are okay and acceptable to say and do to other people right now are not the same things that were acceptable in the 60's, and it would be ignorant to say that we've progressed to a point where we no longer have to evolve our speech and behaviors.

So how can we objectively determine what is and isn't good when it changes all the time?
I would consider myself as mostly a free speech absolutist but don't disagree with too much of what you've stated. However, I actually don't think there are too many people that say that hate speech, as you've defined it, doesn't exist at all. I've mostly hear that argument in a legal context. I would also disagree that we can " more or less objectively evaluate" what is considered hate speech. For example, compare the phrases "most Christians are bigots" and "most immigrants are criminals." Both phrases are prejudice against a group, but some/many (not all) liberals and conservatives would have different interpretations regarding whether one or both of these phrases is "hateful"
I think you are confusing "Hate Speech" with HATEFUL speech, but nevertheless, this was decided 2 years ago, by the [US Supreme Court.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/volokh-conspiracy/wp/2017/06/19/supreme-court-unanimously-reaffirms-there-is-no-hate-speech-exception-to-the-first-amendment/?utm_term=.731fa2523eb7) 

If you are free to make hateful remarks, then "hate speech" very much is a part of Free Speech. 

You may disagree, but spewing out highly offensive remarks does not warrant a new law banning such speech (Not necessarily your view, I know). But, to determine when [X] speech crosses the line is a question best left to the courts and should be examined on a case-by-case basis. Certain speech is certainly against the law, such as inciting violence, etc. 

However, whereas restricting hateful speech may be attractive to certain groups of people, real social change comes from the hard work put forth to address the underlying causes of racism, sexism, inequality, etc. 

Good ideas often triumph and prosper in a society with absolute free speech. The minute you start to hastily restrict speech is the minute you open up pandora's box in an attempt to purify public discourse.
>If you agree that there is such a thing as hate, then you must necessarily agree that there is such a thing as hateful.

Agreed.

>Hate speech: abusive or threatening speech or writing that expresses prejudice against a particular group, especially on the basis of race, religion, or sexual orientation.

I disagree with this though. If you submit that hate speech is *hateful speech*, then there's a hard line between word choice, and intent behind the words (which "Hate Speech" attempts to amalgamate into the same thing). Calling a person "gay" during a video game due to competition is not hateful, therefore it's not hate speech (in contrast to the definition of "Hate Speech"). 

Similarly, you can say very hateful things to someone in the most PC way possible, e.g. screaming at someone's face "You're the most disgusting person I've ever had the misfortune of interacting with! I pray you never interact with another person again!" That's very hateful!! But it's not "Hate Speech". 

So the problem with the canonical idea of "Hate Speech" is that it doesn't capture *hateful* speech. I'd argue it's hateful speech that should be barred, and is not protected under free speech. "Hate Speech", however, should be protected under free speech. 

Just because someone may get offended at "Hate Speech" (like watching someone on twitch call someone else the N-word during a LoL game) doesn't mean the speech is hateful. Wanting to ban "Hate Speech" is essentially saying you have a right not to get offended, while hateful speech gets a free pass, simply because it's PC and not "Hate Speech".

>It should be obvious, but I think a society with less hate speech is better as well.

Therefore, I contest this. A country with less *hateful speech* is better, whereas reducing "Hate Speech" barely does anything.
As others have said, I really don't think that the number of individuals who deny the existence of hate speech is anywhere near what you are portraying. In fact, I would go as far as to say that very, very few people would not acknowledge the existence of hate speech by the definition you presented.

Where people differ is in what they personally believe constitutes hate speech,and/or the degree to which hate speech presents a problem. Furthermore, people such as myself will readily acknowledge hate speech but oppose legislation against it because the question becomes "Where do we draw the line?" 

>  those who refuse to acknowledge that hate speech exists generally do so because they fear that by acknowledging it, they're giving a foothold to laws (and to a lesser extent policies by private entities) to ban certain speech.

This is where you are misunderstanding the concern. It's not that hate speech laws give other potentially dangerous laws a foothold, it's that a law banning hate speech is dangerous *in and of itself* due to the subjective nature of the term. Even the terms "abusive" and "threatening" are subjective, meaning that a prosecutor/judge can simply make a judgement call as to whether *they personally* find the speech in question to be hateful, whether or not it fits the opinion of most people. The slope is entirely too slippery, and putting laws in place that ban hate speech places entirely too much faith in humanity to police itself and survive changes in social/political climates. You also have to consider that selective enforcement is a HUGE concern with speech-restricting laws. Private entities already have the authority to ban speech, their actions are not governed by the First Amendment, they are held accountable by the free market.

Let's use some examples to demonstrate the concerns I'm talking about:

Selective enforcement: Imagine that a law banning hate-speech was on the books in pre-1964 America. Now imagine you are a black person in the South. White people call you hateful and racist names all day long and the police do nothing because they are also racist and are not going to arrest their fellow racists. You publicly state "White people keep calling me a n----r and I'm tired of it!" You are now arrested and charged with hate speech, either because you made an "abusive" comment about white people, or (even more ridiculously) because you said "n----r" which is a banned word under the law. You hear it every day, but because of the social climate, only you are charged with a crime.

I'm sure you can extrapolate this example into modern day or any other scenario.

Changing climate concerns: Imagine a hate speech law passes and everything is fine for a few years. Then, in 2036, a deeply religious president is elected and much of Congress is religious as well. They start passing laws against marijuana/abortion/whatever that you personally disagree with. You say "I don't like these laws and I don't like someone else's religion dictating the laws in this country." You are now arrested for hate speech, because you made an "abusive" comment on the basis of religion.

Again, you can extrapolate.

These are not far-fetched examples, even if some may think they are alarmist or extreme. They are not. We have seen (since 2016) just how dramatically a sociopolitical climate can shift one way or another on the basis of who is elected or what is going on in the media. You need to understand that the law you are advocating as a form of protection could just as easily be used against you if the climate changes.

We all know what hate speech is. It gets denounced, people get publicly shamed, lose their jobs, etc. Laws restricting speech are DANGEROUS. There is no way around this.

> That is, I think a society that has free speech is generally better than one that doesn't, but I also acknowledge that free speech has a cost itself.

That's it. That's all you need to realize, and you're already there. Hate speech is bad, and it's a shame that some people find echo chambers or audiences to preach their hate to, but the answer to this is not laws banning speech.

You don't silence hate speech with a law, just like you don't end drug use with prohibition. You silence it by speaking out yourself against it, but not tolerating it from those around you or public figures, and by voting - both on the ballot and with your wallet - for people who agree with you.
Could you give us a couple of links of someone claiming hate speech does not exist? I'm only familiar with the arguments about whether or not to protect hate speech. I've never hear of anyone arguing that hate speech can't exist.

There really isn't much to disagree with on your view here. I could simply state *Race X is worthless to humanity and should be systematically extinguished* and clearly that would be considered hate speech. So now it's been shown that hate speech can exist.
Using your definition of hate speech, there is obviously speech that falls into that category. I doubt anyone will question that.
However I don’t support the idea that there is some objective quality that separates “hate speech” from regular speech. At lest that there is some provable quality. 

First missing from your definition is that group being hated on needs to be one society does not want hated on. I don’t really consider it hate speech when you claim that criminals should be locked up. Despite that being hate speech when applied to many other groups of people. That may seem trivial but it’s actually a huge issue. Take illegal/undocumented immigrants. What would and would not be considered hate speech very much depends on your views of them. Is it OK to say they should all be put in jail? After all they are criminals?
I get what you are saying, but I don't think you are operating from the same definition as everyone else. 

If you and I use different definitions for the same word, we can reach wildly different conclusions. 

Hate speech is usually a legal term. A hate speech law, regulates and defines hate speech is. In the absence of such a law, or at least a proposal for a law for a hypothetical, there is no such thing as hate speech. 

This is why people deny the existence of hate speech, since under the above definition, it effectively concedes the point that hate speech laws should exist - since otherwise you are arguing over nothing. 

Additionally, Reddit is a complex place to discuss hate speech, since nonamericans use the site, and many of them live in countries with hate speech laws. When some from the EU talks hate speech, they are likely referring to a particular law, since otherwise the term doesn't mean anything.
>Hate speech: abusive or threatening speech or writing that expresses prejudice against a particular group, especially on the basis of race, religion, or sexual orientation.

Surely this is only a subset of hate speech.  Hate speech presumably also includes non-abusive, non-threatening speech expressing hatred of a group or advocating maltreatment of a group.  Hypothetically, "the Jews ruin every country they are in and should be evicted" is hate speech but not abusive or threatening.

Banning only abusive or threatening hate speech is much less problematic than banning all hate speech.  If all hate speech is banned, hateful people have a much easier time communicating hate with circumlocutions, allowing listeners to infer what they like without having to express it fully and be rebutted.  Anti hate speech laws that aren't extremely limited thus abet the hate speech they forbid.