Title: CMV: Absolute free speech doesn’t exist - real debate is about where to draw the line

Post:
I am beginning to think that absolute free speech (i.e. being able to say anything and everything, including the most repugnant and vile things you can think of) does not exist. Real debate around free speech is where to draw the line which is much more tricker. I base this on two premises below.

Most of us would draw a line at something. For example, if I was to publicly preach that the way to reduce population growth is to start killing babies, most people would find that abhorrent and I’d probably be shut down. Similarly when a religious cleric preaches death to non-believers, we find that abhorrent too and if there were such religious places in our cities, we’d want to have them shut down in one way or the other. Am I wrong in thinking this would be the case?

Secondly, there are already laws in place that restrict absolute free speech - including anti-hate speech laws, defamation laws, even false advertising laws. These laws already (and rightfully) impugn on our rights to absolute free speech. 

So the real question isn’t if free speech exists or not. Real question is where the line is drawn. CMV!

Edit: thank you for all the responses. I am writing an essay around this topic and before I publish it on my blog I wanted to test out my thinking in this wonderful sub. I’m off to work now and will respond to as many comments as I can after work!  

Top Comments:
The U.S. has no hate speech exceptions to private political speech. Private political free speech is almost an absolute right here. There are time and place exceptions, like where and when you can protest, or how close to a polling station you are allowed to campaign, but nearly nothing that restricts content.

So to be clear, both a general advocacy of killing babies or death to non believers, totally legal in the U.S. 

Defamation and libel laws are incredibly loose in the U.S. Acutal Malice is the standard used, which means that it has to be proved that the defendant lied on purpose to hurt another person.

False advertising only applies to commercial speech which like government speech is far more regulated than private speech.

Pro-ISIS content is a little bit weirder of a case. Most people that have prosecuted for posting Islamist propaganda have been charge with "providing material support for foreign terrorist organizations".

Inciting imminent lawless action, threats and obscenity are the main exceptions to private political speech in the states, all of them focus more on the form of the speech than its content.

TLDR: Near absolute freedom in content of private political speech is protected in the U.S. European style hate-speech or blasphemy law restrictions would be illegal here. 
I'm not gonna lie, I'm stumped - this is an extremely solid and pretty hard to rebut view as there's nothing disagreeable in your post. So how do you think we can change your view? What kind of arguments might change your mind here?

By the way, your last paragraph has a typo, its first sentence should say "the real question **isn't** if free..."
This is going to sound like I am calling you stupid but I'm not doing that.  If we were face to face right now you would be able to see from my face, and tell from my tone of voice that I actually really respect the mental lifting you have done on this topic.  It is, straight up, impressive.  What you lack however is the benefit of the hundreds of years of thinking that other very intelligent people have given to this topic and so you are kind of "out of the loop" about what the actual arguments are about free speech and you have - very understandably - picked up what ignorant media personalities are advancing as being the debate.  And so you have gone down the wrong path (though made some very impressive progress along it).

No one, ever, has taken the position that absolute free speech does, should, or could, exist.  It simply isn't the argument.  You can't say "If you don't have sex with me and then give me ten thousand dollars I will murder your family," and then have a good first amendment defense against the rape, extortion, and death threat charges that follow.

Using nothing more than your mouth you can slander someone, you can threaten them, you can defraud them, you can extort them, you can incite violence or a riot, and so on and so forth.

Direct calls to violence have always been prohibited.  

Now... here is where the debate is:  "Jews suck", "Women are not good scientists", "poor people should just work harder", and pictures of naked people.

And in this regard the united states comes EXTREMELY close to having absolute free speech.  In fact where it falls short are on such edge cases that you really have to have sympathy for them.  Should it be a crime to sell child pornography if no actual children were involved in making it and it is just digital creations of children?  Just how far to libel protections for news outlets go when the publish a sex tape from a C-list celebrity?  Etc.

Other countries have hate speech laws - not the USA.  There is a debate about these things but right now the USA basically has the needle on 0% or 1% restrictions and it is hard to imagine any government covering 330 million people having fewer restrictions just because of the size of the society the government has to regulate and the sheer number of laws.
Whether something is repugnant or vile does not impact whether you are free to say it in the US and it should *never* impact it.

For your first premise, I'd say please do this so that the rest of us can laugh at the idiot trying to literally implement Jonathan Swift's 'A Modest Proposal'. 

As for preaching death, we do have restrictions on speech that either literally threatens death or incites others to kill. Those words are seen as 'fighting words' and a precursor to the act of killing, not simple speech. Similarly to shouting fire in a crowded theater is seen as inciting a stampede, not just as a method of expressing your love for pyrotechnics. The restriction is not based on the content of the speech, but on the situation that results from it.

Your second premise is closer to hitting the mark. We do place certain restrictions on speech already, but again, they are not restricting the content of the speech itself (which is what you seem to want) but rather they exist to protect people from certain situations that may arise from speech. 

Defamation, for instance, is to prevent your good name being unjustly misrepresented. It is also ridiculously difficult to prove and requires a literal smoking gun of the accused to have said something like 'I knew it was a lie and I said it to make them look bad'. It also notably does not apply to public figures.

False advertising laws are designed to protect consumers from being taken advantage of by products and are also pretty easy to get around/difficult to convict someone of. There are specific words that mean specific things when it comes to advertising, particularly with foods, and unless you can show that your product meets those standards, you can't use those words. Other words, however, *sound* like they mean something and people *think* they mean something but they're essentially meaningless from an advertising perspective. 'Natural' or 'All Natural' for example, are completely meaningless despite the connotations.

Hate speech laws are *not* supported in the US and have been universally defeated when brought to the level of a constitutional challenge, as content of speech is what the constitution expressly protects. The very idea of 'hate speech' is laughable to me, as anyone can claim that anything they don't like which might apply to them could be labeled as such. It's a ridiculous concept that should *never* be allowed to take root in the US. Hate speech does not directly bring about any specific circumstance related to it other than making people feel shitty. You have a right to not have your life literally threatened, you do not have the right to never feel bad when talking to people.

'Absolute' free speech, with no protections against the results of others' speech, *could* exist. It wouldn't be desirable, but it could exist if we just removed the very limited restrictions already in place. I think the ones we already have are very reasonable though, and there's no reason to give the government any more power over our speech. There's especially no reason to give them any power *at all* over the *content* of our speech.
What, precisely, do you mean by absolute free speech doesn't exist?

It certainly exists as a concept. It doesn't exist under current laws (in the US). I'm not seeing a viewpoint to dispute.
> Absolute free speech doesn’t exist - real debate is about where to draw the line

What do you mean by this second part? That free speech is about protecting debate?

Free speech actually protects so much more; whether it's fiction, art, poetry, jokes etc. None of these have to have anything to do with wanting to make a point about anything. I fully agree that it's not absolute, but there's nothing that says that speech has to have to have a good reason before it's allowed.
Well of course, absolute free speech doesn't "exist" in a legal way.

Absolute free speech exists in a conceptual and "practical" way, though. The conceptual way is obvious, the simple fact that you're using talking about it proves it. 

The "practical" way means that you can talk about what you want, anywhere and at any time (specially in the internet). However, absolute free speech is not legal and thus, you would have to atone to the consequences, at least in many cases.
The point of free speech isn't to say literally whatever you want, it's to say whatever you want within reason, such as criticizing the government, sharing your opinions even if offending someone, etc. without retribution.
Just because we don't currently have something, doesn't mean it doesn't exist. I don't have a Ferrari, but I'm fairly sure that they do in fact exist and it is theoretically possible to attain one.

> For example, if I was to publicly preach that the way to reduce population growth is to start killing babies, most people would find that abhorrent and I’d probably be shut down. Similarly when a religious cleric preaches death to non-believers, we find that abhorrent too and if there were such religious places in our cities, we’d want to have them shut down in one way or the other. Am I wrong in thinking this would be the case?

This is saying that you DON'T have the freedom to say these things, not that you CAN'T EVER have the freedom to say them. Absolute free speech exists, you just don't have it.

> Secondly, there are already laws in place that restrict absolute free speech - including anti-hate speech laws, defamation laws, even false advertising laws. These laws already (and rightfully) impugn on our rights to absolute free speech.

Again, this isn't an argument against the existence of total free speech, it's merely an argument that you don't have it. It would be perfectly possible to wipe these laws off the books.

What this is, is that you've just immediately conceded the need for the existence of a line. That doesn't mean that the concept of not having a line is invalid, somehow.
Free speech exists in that I can say what I want. Consequence-free speech doesn't exist and never has, and never can unless you're by yourself yelling in the woods.

Especially because of gun ownership in my country, if you're willing to die for what you believe in, it's pretty hard for anyone to actually stop you from saying it. Sometimes free speech has consequences, it's undeniable. But like good ol Patrick Henry said, "Give me liberty or give me death" has been the motto of quite a few people over the centuries.

Anyway, the idea of enshrining 1A was to try and prevent government tyranny regarding speech, the founders knew it was impossible (and ill-advised) to try and make a system where no speech is sanctionable in any way.