Title: CMV: Obama laughing with trump is not something to be concerned about

Post:
I’m not too desperate to get into most political talk, but people being concerned with Obama laughing at a joke by trump has been quite the stir recently. Ive seen posts on a few subreddits making the claim that the issue is not left or right, but classism, while using the photo of trump and Obama laughing at jimmy carters funeral. 

I’ve wanted to make the counter argument that the photo can be seen as a positive for Obama. I feel as though he has the capability to sit with anyone and perceive them as human. The ability to sit down and chat with your opposition is a positive trait that Obama uses as both leverage and assurity of level headedness from himself. 

I’m not going to deny the statement that class issues are a huge problem. Class inequality is what I believe to be one of our bigger issues in the United States and needs to be addressed. However, I do believe that Obama is not in the wrong for the ability to laugh at a joke by their opposition party, nor does it conclude that he is a problem with such an issue. In fact, I think that is something that Trump had begun to remove from the political scene compared to all other elections before his first run in 2016. You can compare political debates before the 2016 election and find more level headedness while still disagreeing. 

I also apologize if some of this is a bit unclear, feel free to have me rewrite some statements. I’ve just woken up and a bit hungover, idk why I have the energy to discuss this but I’m down for it lol

CMV

Edit: wow did not expect this to blow up. Will try to keep up with everyone but I’m still dealing with last nights regrets lol. Thanks for the new POV’s

Top Comments:
/u/TheBone_Zone (OP) has awarded 2 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/1hz2mzs/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_obama_laughing_with_trump/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
Has political discourse become so toxic that it's outlandish to see two people of different political views sharing a 2 minute conversation at a memorial service?

Not everything has to be political. People are people.
I think the thing that the 2 of them joking and laughing together shows, is that Obama attempting to define Trump as the next Hitler before the election was hyperbole and he does not really believe that because if he really did he surely would not be sitting and having a good laugh with Hitler.  The thing to be concerned about here is the inflammatory Rhetoric of politicians, or a case of total hypocrisy.
If you are of the camp that believes someone is a fascist threat to the entire stability of the lives of every citizen in the country you represent(ed); it's very bizarre to treat that fascist threat like you would treat a friendly acquaintance, don't you think?


I can absolutely see why that leads people to believe the leads of the Democratic Party aren't taking the threat as seriously as they say they are
I’m still convinced all the politicians from both sides spend time hanging out sipping on wine or whiskey just laughing at how fucking clueless we all are. 

They’re all after the same thing. Money and power. They just may disagree on how to obtain it. Or it’s all a giant choreographed thing where the whole point is to keep us arguing about pronouns and Nazis so we don’t notice how badly we are being duped. 

There’s no doubt, especially in America, the people uniting against them is in the top 3 worst possible things that could happen. They will do everything in their power to stop us from realizing how little power we really have.
>I’ve wanted to make the counter argument that the photo can be seen as a positive for Obama. I feel as though he has the capability to sit with anyone and perceive them as human. The ability to sit down and chat with your opposition is a positive trait that Obama uses as both leverage and assurity of level headedness from himself. 

This is true for Trump then too, right? That he's not a oppositional as people make out if he can sit and laugh with Obama.

If it only applies to Obama, how do you explain your bias?

(I'm not a supporter of either of them.)
>I think that is something that Trump had begun to remove from the political scene compared to all other elections before his first run in 2016.

That's why laughing with Trump is a problem.  He hasn't just begun to remove it, it's his entire methodology.  Constant slanderous attacks against the opposition with no sense of decorum, civility, or mutual respect at all.

To engage with him at a public event like this is letting Trump have his cake and eat it too, and it definitely makes the impression that politics is just a game the elite play with each other to keep the plebs looking the wrong direction.

I don't know that Obama actually is a classist, or what his intent was in this interaction, but Trump definitely is a classist, and this interaction validated his position as such.