Title: Weekend General Discussion - September 01, 2023

Post:
Hello everyone, and welcome to the weekly General Discussion thread. Many of you are looking for an informal place (besides [Discord](https://discord.gg/EJ4qAQu)) to discuss non-political topics that would otherwise not be allowed in this community. Well... ask, and ye shall receive.

General Discussion threads will be posted every Friday and stickied for the duration of the weekend. 

Law 0 is suspended. All other community rules still apply. 

As a reminder, the intent of these threads are for \*casual discussion\* with your fellow users so we can bridge the political divide. Comments arguing over individual moderation actions or attacking individual users are \*not\* allowed.

Top Comments:
Recipe for the week:  Salmon Coconut Soup.

Ingredients:

For your Broth:

4 cups fish/shrimp stock (you can use vegetable stock if you want).

13.5-16 ounces of full fat coconut milk (Get as close as you can in these ranges, in my area coconut milk is hard to come buy, and I usually have to buy it in a bag that varies in weight.)

1 tablespoon fresh ginger minced

1 shallot minced

2 cloves garlic minced

1 teaspoon lime zest (1 lime)

1 stalk lemongrass thinly sliced

½ teaspoon Kosher salt

For the Soup:

1.5 pounds salmon filets any residual bones removed, cut into 1-inch cubes

½ teaspoon Kosher salt

1 teaspoon ground black pepper

1 tablespoon olive oil 

1 medium spanish onion diced

1 red or yellow bell pepper diced

3 diced bird's eye chilis

1 tablespoon galangal (or grated ginger)

3 cloves garlic finely minced

13.5-16 ounces of coconut milk

1 cup broccoli florets rinsed and cut into small pieces

4 tablespoons lime juice

1 teaspoon dark corn syrup

2 limes quartered

Directions:

1.  For Broth: Place the stock, coconut milk, ginger, shallot, garlic, lime zest, lemongrass, and salt in a medium-sized saucepan. Bring it to a boil on high heat, then turn it down to medium-low and let it simmer for 30 minutes.

2. Strain the broth into a bowl and discard the solids. Set the broth aside.

3. While your broth is simmering, pat the salmon dry using paper towels. Season with salt and pepper, (if you want more lemon flavor go with lemon pepper instead of ground black).

4. Heat your oil in a stock pot over medium heat. Add in the onion and peppers and cook, stirring frequently, until translucent, 4-5 minutes. Add in the galangal/ginger and garlic and cook for approximately 1 minute.

5. Add in the broth that was set aside along with the other portion of coconut milk. Bring the mixture to a boil and let it simmer for 15 minutes.

6. Add in the broccoli florets in the last 5 minutes of the simmering time.

7. Add in the cubed salmon when there is only one minute remaining, once the minute is up, turn the heat off. Residual heat will cook it through.

8. Stir in your lime juice and dark corn syrup, taste for seasoning. 

9. If you desire, garnish with chopping scallions, green onion, slices of spicier peppers, or cilantro. Serve with the lime wedges on the side, if more acidity is needed.

Note:

Salmon does not freeze or thaw well, so plan to consume all of this in the setting it is made or within three days of preparation.  The broth itself however freezes wonderfully in an air tight container, and can be made ahead, then brought to temperature. 

There is no difference in taste whether you cook the salmon skin-on or off, so do so to your preference. 

Suggestions with this recipe:

For spice lovers, try to get your hands on some Tien Tsin or Siling Haba (Espada) peppers to bring in some more heat and flavor to the dish.

For those looking to increase the protein, adding shrimp to the dish won't change up the flavor too much, especially if you add them in deshelled. Just make sure your pot can handle the addition of around half a pound.
It's great to have understanding bosses. I'm currently onboarding for a job with the USDA and wasn't able to get the TB test I need done with the rest of my physical earlier this week. Had planned to do it yesterday but the doctor had a family emergency(in addition to the clinic being closed on Monday, due to Labor Day and you need to wait 2 to 3 days before the results can be read) so have to do it this morning. Thankfully, my boss is letting me start later today after I explained to her that I had to reschedule the appt that I had planned on doing yesterday. Bad luck seems to be the only luck I have.
Any other FL people here? How did you fare through the storm? For us in the Tampa Bay area, I hope this was a real wake up call about how unprepared we are for a direct hit. This storm was 125 miles off coast and we still had tons of flooding. I can't imagine if we had to deal with 11' surges...

I think all in all we got extremely lucky that it hit in a low population density area and the people there evacuated.
Vines, vines, vines. My whole fuckin' life (after work) is just pulling out vines at this point. Mostly grape, but there's some ivy and raspberry too. Goes around the entire stinkin' property, draped across our fences, trees, neighbor's trees, through bushes, got roots like god damn tree trunks in some parts. Fuck do I hate vines right now.
Y'all play any Armored Core 6 yet?  I just finished the first chapter boss and wow.  That's all I'll say.  Pretty fun game, reminds me of the PS1+2 armored cores, loved that shit as a kid.  But that first chapter boss has to be up there with shit like Father Gascigone.  Probably even harder than him tbh.
This sounds great and would probably be a great use for the dog salmon I have.  But I have no idea where to find birds eye chilis in Alaska.  Never seen them.
Right here. I don’t think it was a wake up call so much as confirmation of what we already knew. No one that I know has any illusions of what a direct hit would do 

I live right on Bayshore and the water was up to the apartment property and a bit past it on one side. All this proves is what we all knew: if we get a direct hit from even a Cat 1, Tampa Bay is wrecked, Pinellas becomes an island, and my apartment is gonna have at least 3-6 feet of water in it. 

It has made me get out my notepad and start writing out my prep for this/next year. I’ve always had some minor preps, but now I’m going to be detailed and planned out.
Not a FL resident, but I remember seeing something about how the hurricane’s path was gonna take it over areas that had a lot of trailer parks and if the damage was bad there might be a surge in homelessness. Is any of that happening?
Better vines than blackberries imo. 

Is there anything that will do this work for you? 

Do goats eat these vines?