Title: CMV: There is no good reason for the Right to Free Speech to be absolute in a Democracy

Post:
This happens day in day out in the media and online, someone is discussing the awful things another person has said and someone else defends their right to say that because the right to free speech is special and absolute. Someone counters that reasonable restrictions on speech are appropriate only to be countered with ‘who decides what speech is OK’ and ‘where does it stop?’

I find these arguments perplexing, we live in a society where it is understood and accepted that our personal freedoms are curbed for the benefit of society, we regulate markets, property and activity, we impose taxes and laws. There may be some extreme Libertarians who think we should be allowed to do whatever we want as long as we don’t hurt other citizens but for most of us we accept that there have to be some limitations. The only areas this suffers extreme push back is speech, many believe we cannot limit that no matter the circumstances.

I don’t want to discuss what reasonable limits are, that’s not the point of this post, just that there are perfectly reasonable controls we can use to limit it where we choose. The first counter to limiting free speech is ‘who gets to say what’s OK or not’ but there’s an easy answer to that question, a democratically elected government. The whole point of government is to decide what the limits on our personal freedoms are, they decide what money is taken from us in taxes and how to spend that money, they decide what the laws and legislation that control what we can and can’t do are. I can think of no reasonable reason why they aren’t empowered to limit what speech we can use as well. The reason this is reasonable is that we can unseat democratic governments who overstep the mark via elections, in a democracy the people are the ultimate control of what the limits on our freedoms are, not the government.

Now, it’s possible that a democratically elected government can become tyrannical and impose limits on free speech against the will of the people and, whilst I accept that as a possibility, it’s not an argument made against other infringements on personal freedoms. No one argues that we shouldn’t have a police force because we might turn into a police state for example. If we place trust in our democracy to limit all our other freedoms fairly there’s no reason not to place our trust in democracy to limit speech fairly.

That’s my view, that a democratically elected government is an appropriate tool for limiting free speech in the interests of the governed. Please keep your responses to this issue rather than specific arguments about what speech should or shouldn’t be limited. Cheers.

Edit: Thankyou for all the responses and if I can I will answer more later, but at this time my view is unchanged. I agree with most of you that there is specific speech that should be protected but that is not counter to my point. We should not treat all speech as if its protection is paramount, all speech should be judged on its own merits and potential for harm and if found not useful to society then limits are appropriate.

Top Comments:
Well people who think that the freedom of speech ought to be absolute, think that that is the case because the freedom of speech is critical to the functioning of democracy. So the argument that the potential limits on speech would be decided democratically isn't convincing to them, because they already consider a democratic process in which speech is or could be limited to be suspect.
You know, I’m not normally one to appreciate the slippery slope fallacy, but here we go. 

Your democratically elected government (in America) ALREADY took a stance on this and decided that most speech should be left unregulated. You cannot invite violence. You cannot conspire to commit violence. You cannot lie about some (libel/slander). Outside of that, it’s fair game. 

But you want to change the rules, which illustrates the slope. There are already rules. Let me say that again. WE ALREADY HAVE RULES. You want to change them, and then claim “but they won’t be changed again to something worse… It’s democratically elected people changing it!” 

You know what worse wasn’t supposed to be a slippery slope? Taxes. I forget the name of the case, but in the early 1800s, the commerce clause of the constitution was on trial at the Supreme Court. Within that case, they debated the slippery slope of Congress having “all power necessary and proper to carry out the enumerated clauses.” Congress was opening a bank, because they needed to tax and to spend money. “What’s next? The government has its hand in roads, school, church?” (There we’re more, but it’s 430 am). Basically the only thing on the list it doesn’t currently regulate is church… 

It took WAR for us to give up the power of slavery. It took mobs and bootleggers for us to give up power over alcohol. 

How ever reasonable you believe people to be in limiting the freedoms of others, I guarantee you that you are mistaken. It always begins reasonably… It never ends reasonably.
Speech is self regulating. If I have a bad idea and state it in open discourse it can be challenged and if majority  think it's a bad idea it can be dismantled. If there is regulation on what speech we can use the ability to shout down bad ideas in a public space is limited. If the ability to challenge bad ideas is regulated you no longer have democracy. You have mob rule. Like some subs here. The majority of opposing ideas are removed from the conversation giving the moderators the ability to dispense their beliefs as the belief. Ending slavery for example was a fringe movement that changed into a western movement due to the ability of the "crazy protestants" to voice their points in open discourse.
>Now, it’s possible that a democratically elected government can become tyrannical and impose limits on free speech against the will of the people and, whilst I accept that as a possibility, **it’s not an argument made against other infringements on personal freedoms.**

Are you unfamiliar with the debate on guns in the US? Gun advocates are absolutely making arguments that any and all restrictions on gun ownership are unconstitutional and will lead to tyranny. It is like their #1 argument.

Also, you are aguing against a bit of a straw man. There are very few reasonable people who are calling for totally unrestricted free speech, and we already have [a large number of laws](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_free_speech_exceptions) that restrict speech in the way you advocate for. Can you review this list and see where you find it lacking? To restrict speech there typically has to be a great deal of immediate or unavoidable harm that comes as a result of some utterance or printed word, but beyond that we allow for quite a bit. 

=
>The reason this is reasonable is that we can unseat democratic governments who overstep the mark via elections

Well, you can if you have free speech that enables you to express the goals you might have to other people.  Speech restrictions are quite dangerous and can easily make it impossible to do so.  Speech restrictions are also a crucial step that any government that wants to become tyrannical will have to take.

So sure, of course we can have *some*, and almost nobody thinks that speech should be literally 100% absolute.  For example, nobody really wants us to change the law to allow companies to lie about their products on tv commercials.  Nobody really wants us to change the law to allow me to address a group of protesters and convince them to murder someone right then and there.

But any new restriction?  Can and should bring up a huge red flag.  Why TF is there a new restriction, could this restriction be way worse than it looks, will it impede democracy and/or be abusable by would-be tyrants to become real tyrants?  Because that's almost always a step that needs to be taken, so treat it like the red flag it is.

Additionally, just looking empirically, very few speech restrictions that looked good on paper have done any measurable good, and many speech restrictions that have been lifted and engendered lots of concern/complaints have done a lot of good by being lifted.  Speech restrictions are from the historical record especially likely to sound better than they are in practice.
You are free to say just about anything. You are not free from the consequences other people give you for your words.

That is the "reasonable limit" we have imposed. 

If you are looking for a system like the one you described where the state limits free speech look no further than China.

Hope that helps!
I think that we can tackle this issue from two of the main points that you've brought up.

The first is as you've said - who decides what speech can or cannot be said?

The reason why this is a good reason is because the speech that people want restrictions on are a subjective thing. It's a matter of good and bad, which means that it is an issue of values. As a society, we choose to term certain types of speech as "hate speech" and ban the free expression of that kind of speech when it goes against certain values. The question then to be answered is - whose values are we basing this on?

If you choose to ban a certain viewpoint that goes against your values but is consistent with mine, you then need to convincingly justify why your values are more inherently valuable than mine. If our values are equally valuable, then what gives you the right to say that your values are more correct than mine, and why should my viewpoint be banned instead of yours? The best option, then, is to acknowledge that both sides have subjective values and neither is inherently more valuable than the other, so we'll just let both sides say what they want.

The second point is on the democratic government. Like you've said, there isn't really much that we can do if a government were to go rogue and become tyrannical, but assuming that we have a democratic government that is acting in good faith, even then I don't agree with them being able to restrict our choice of speech.

Reason being that in all democratic governments, the mandate is given by the majority. What about the minority who didn't vote for the party in power? Those people never agreed to give the government their power, not explicitly at least. Why would I want to trust a government that I didn't vote in to dictate what I can or cannot say?

Going back to the idea of why the right to free speech needs to be an absolute - if we restrict certain viewpoints and types of speech, then we set a precedent in this particular society that speech can be arbitrarily restricted, as long as the government says so. This includes criticism of the government. If the government decides that criticism of them or political dissent is now illegal, that paves the way for them to become a dictatorship. It's a slippery slope argument, but legal precedent is a powerful thing.
I would argue that regulating speech is not as simple as regulating other behaviour. Language is very flexible, and you can communicate the same thing in many different ways, or the same word can mean different things in different contexts. This makes it difficult to regulate by proscribing a list of naughty words; you have to ban vaguer, more general ideas, eg 'something likely to cause offence'. But when the laws are phrased that way, the government isn't making a clear decision about what speech should be banned. They are just passing the buck to a judge.
There are limits, libel, slander, incitement to riot.  Viewpoint neutral restrictions as to time, place, and volume are also (mostly) acceptable. 

There might be others but that is just about an exhaustive list. 

Other than that, being able to say anything else is a cornerstone of a democracy.  Being critical of every idea is necessary to challenge those ideas. 

Also governments do not exist to determine what right we get to have. I suppose European governments might conceive of themselves created in such a fashion, but the United States Constition was set up to specifically limit what the government can do to people. It guarantees rights to the people that we do not even know we have yet. 

Finally, there are many other rights that are viewed with near absoluteness as freedom of speech, some of these are press, assembly, petition, right to bear arms, religion, due process, bills of attainder, ex post facto, and habeus corpus.