Title: CMV: Free speech is and should always stay undebatable and language as the medium of speech therefore needs to stay free as well.

Post:
There are of course limits on what vocabulary official documents should use or how certain contexts in which a lot of damage can be done through verbal means are handled (nazi rallys etc.) But in most places those are regulated to a healthy degree already. 

Other than that, nothing should be off limits to at least discuss in an abstract. No word, no phrase, not even an idea, no matter how stupid should be banned from discussion.

1.) Talking is just communicating internal thought to other people. Talking is thinking's multiplayer mode. If you forbid what people are allowed to say, you forbid what thoughts are allowed to be formed. Or what use are thoughts If you aren't able to verbalize them?
This is a dangerous and frankly facist tool to control people and should never be tolerated by anyone.

2.) There can and should of course be consequences for speech, but for the most part, those should stay on a personal level. Someone tweets something horrible? Unfollow them. Post your response. Be open and vocal about what they did wrong. But don't expect them to lose their job for not using terminology you currently think is right. Let the actual judges be the judges of if people should be punished or not.

3.) The few things that we DO consider mostly off-limits were extremely hard to put into law and they should be, basically only when a huge majority agreed to it - like slavery. 

Living a life in fear of losing your lifelihood for not being at the current cutting edge of what is considered modern communication etiquette is a notion no one in the civilized world should accept. As long as there was no constitutional level of agreement after multiple doublechecks, of course. Decisions that affect our ability to verbalize thought should never be taken lightly and almost definetely should not be decided by the twitter mob.

Top Comments:
/u/sad_panda91 (OP) has awarded 2 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/yfg3uv/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_free_speech_is_and_should/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
>2.) There can and should of course be consequences for speech, but for the most part, those should stay on a personal level. Someone tweets something horrible? Unfollow them. Post your response. Be open and vocal about what they did wrong. But don't expect them to lose their job for not using terminology you currently think is right. Let the actual judges be the judges of if people should be punished or not.

Have you ever worked at a job?  Can you imagine trying to work with a co-worker who thinks you're subhuman?  That you're literally not as much of a person as them?  A co-worker that you know for a fact thinks you're mentally incapacitated, untrustworthy, and should not have been hired?  

Can you see how that would create a bad working environment?  Companies absolutely have an interest in not fostering a working environment where that's common.  With a clash of personalities between two people, you may be able to assure that they don't work together again.  But you might end up firing one, especially in a small business where you can't separate them but they can't have a good working relationship.

Now what do you do with an employee who feels that way about an entire segment of the world's population?  Up to 50% of it, for some of them.  Like... do you separate them from 50% of your employees?  How could that possibly work?  

And who is the problem employee in that case?  The person who literally did nothing besides exist, and who has worked diligently for you, or the person who is now creating friction because they publicly state they view other employees as subhuman?  And what happens when one of your clients is part of this "subhuman" group and interacts with this person?  

Unless you're such a tiny firm or have work so segmented you can keep them away from literally every human, or dedicate yourself to exclusively employing people who fit the criteria that person demands to view another person as human, you're inevitably going to create friction.   And the source of the friction is entirely obvious.  

>Living a life in fear of losing your lifelihood for not being at the current cutting edge of what is considered modern communication etiquette is a notion no one in the civilized world should accept.

Maybe we could consider stronger social safety nets so that losing your livelihood is not life ruining.  That turns an economic downturn, or just the bad luck to be working for the wrong company or in an unfortunate industry or just in the wrong geographic location into a life threatening disaster.  America is very unique in having plentiful resources and yet still letting people die from lack of healthcare, or starve on the streets.  Some safety nets like single payer healthcare would go a long way towards avoiding that. 
 That would protect both bigots AND people who are better than them but just have some bad luck, yes?  Doesn't that seem better than just trying to protect only the bigots at the expense of their victims?
>...Free speech is and should always stay undebatable...

Are you not contradicting yourself a bit with following this up with the line: 

>...most places those are regulated to a healthy degree already....

Essentially, you are stating a regulatory oversight of free speech, ie, debating the 'un-debatability' of free speech. 

Free speech should be unviolable, and hate speech should be responded with both counters, and ethical means.
I’d like to address your point #2.

Let’s imagine some celebrity says some pretty anti-Semitic shit.

A clothing company is in business with this celebrity, selling shirts and shoes with his name and likeness on them.

I use my free speech to say “Hey, screw that guy. I’m not buying that anymore, and neither should you”.  Lots of people agree and make similar statements.

The company decides that the product is unpopular now since no one will buy it, and cuts ties with the celebrity.

Suddenly, the celebrity has lost millions of dollars.

Does that violate your point 2?

What should happen in that situation ?
There are a lot of forms of speech that are harmful enough that even in America which has the First Amendment they are illegal.  Hiring a hitman, making death threats, posting child porn, inciting terrorism, bullying people into suicide, disturbing the peace, yelling "fire" in a crowded theater, lying to protect criminals, lying under oath, and so on.

Hitler never killed anyone by his own hand (unless you count him killing himself), every death attributed to him was done via speech alone.  He radicalized a nation, and gave orders.  All of that was nothing but speech.  I think you underestimate how powerful speech can be as a force for evil and good alike.

We already have a lot of laws limiting the more harmful elements of speech, ones that work pretty well.  And being banned from social media is not a legal consequence anyway, it is a social one.  If you were in a WalMart shouting neo-Nazi propaganda from a soapbox, someone would show you the door.  Similarly: if you do that on Twitter they too will show you the door.  There do already exist platforms that have no moderation like 4chan, and these platforms are absolute cesspools that drive reasonable people away with the disgusting behavior that would normally get banned in most places.  All of the "free speech platforms" run by conservatives salty about being banned from Twitter have this same problem, they tend to become places where all there is to talk about is what minorities everyone hates the most.  If nobody enforced a TOS, the entire internet would be like this everywhere all the time.
Nobody has forbidden what people are allowed to say. You have freedom of speech. Everyone else does, too. You're just not free from the social consequences of communicating ideas that others don't agree with, and those consequences can extend to your employer, too. They are free to choose what values and langauge they tolerate.
Should I be forced to patronize any business in particular, or am I allowed to pick and choose?

If I'm allowed to pick and choose, am I allowed to pick and choose based on, say, whether that business employs people I think are bigoted or not?

If I am allowed to choose to not patronize businesses based on if I think their employees are bigoted, are the owners of said businesses forced to employ people who are actively causing them to have less people patronize their business?
>There can and should of course be consequences for speech, but for the most part, those should stay on a personal level. Someone tweets something horrible? Unfollow them. Post your response. Be open and vocal about what they did wrong. But don't expect them to lose their job for not using terminology you currently think is right

Your argument kind of contradicts itself. If I own a family business then why can I unfollow someone or respond to them on Twitter, but I can't choose to not employ them. Me owning a business doesn't make me the government, and it may in fact hurt my business if I continue to employ someone who is being openly racist, sexist, bigoted in any way. You are trying to say that business isn't personal and the repercussions should stay on the personal level, but if I worked my ass off to open a successful restaurant, it's gonna be pretty dang personal to me
If someone uses a racial slur to refer to certain groups of people they should be out of a job. 

No boss has to risk their company being dragged in the dirt just to make racists feel more comfortable. 

Speech comes with consequences.