Title: CMV: "Outrage culture" exists to make people feel good because they are making a difference not to enact long lasting social change. In reality it is incredibly hypocritical and damaging to free speech.

Post:
Whenever I bring up this opinion I am quickly met with "what so people can say racist things?" NO, that is not what I mean. What I am saying is that free speech comes with problems, it is not perfect. However, we as a society understand its importance because it is what allows open discussion and REAL social change. Yelling at people and the hostile environment online is going to make people that you want to hear your opinions resent you NOT listen to you. Cool, calm discussion is how you enact real social change. People should not be scared to speak their mind, especially at college campuses. Ben Shapiro should not have literal riots just to speak his opinions. College is meant to help people think and learn about the world around them, and this RELIES on free expression without fear. This "outrage culture" has also transitioned into places that are MEANT to push the envelope such as stand up comedy. Comedians should not be losing their jobs because a subset of people find their opinion offensive. Who is to say that was a funny edgy joke vs something that was baffling offensive. Finally, have you not said stupid things before? Have you not made mistake? This whole thing is blatantly hypocritical and instead of calmly talking to why you think what they said is problematic they are "REAL PIECES OF SHIT!"

Top Comments:
I'm not sure which "outrage culture" you're talking about.

There are religious folks outraged over the "attack on Christianity" and "Happy Holidays" appearing on cups.

There are anti-immigrant folks outraged about the "border crisis" in the southern US.

There are anti-police folks outraged over police brutality.

And so on, and so forth.

Outrage isn't a culture. It's a human trait. A reaction to things we find extremely disagreeable. Basically, disgust and anger.

In that case, it would seem your point is that, "people being outraged over things" isn't helpful in general, but I disagree there. There is a place for calm, collected, rational debate. But those debates do not happen without a precipitating outrage.

Ask yourself honestly, would you have considered and debated police reform without the recent protests? Would you have considered and debated the risk vs. reward of vaccines without the anti-vaxx protests? Would you have considered and debated gay marriage without the protests? Civil rights? Abortion rights? War? These things became talking points for rational debate *because of* outrage and protests. They wouldn't have been otherwise because humans do not, by default, question the status quo if it's working for them.

Widespread, large scale, meaningful rational debate *is a result of* outrage over perceived injustices. The country doesn't question the status quo until it enters public consciousness on a large scale. These debates do not happen until people take notice of potential injustices.

Outrage and debate go hand-in-hand in society and the confluence of them both is what leads to meaningful societal change.
>However, we as a society understand its importance because it is what allows open discussion and REAL social change.

Is this true? I don't recall abolition of slavery, the abolition of Jim Crow laws, enactment of civil rights laws, etc. to have been brought about because of calm discussion. People had to fight and die for these things. 

>Cool, calm discussion is how you enact real social change.

Citation needed. 

>People should not be scared to speak their mind, especially at college campuses. Ben Shapiro should not have literal riots just to speak his opinions.

Is he having literal riots or are people protesting and shouting him down? Because that's also their right as well. 

>College is meant to help people think and learn about the world around them

Is it? That never struck me as being the point of college. The point of college, as I understand it, is to get a degree to make yourself more economically stable when being introduced into the job market. Other than that, college is mostly pointless. 


>Finally, have you not said stupid things before? Have you not made mistake? This whole thing is blatantly hypocritical

I've said dumb things before. But I fail to see how being held to account for saying dumb things is hypocritical.
What you describe as "outrage culture" does not impinge on free speech at all, it is in fact a natural expression of free speech.  If I was a college student and I was not allowed to protest a lecture by some garbage pseudo-intellectual like Ben Shapiro then \*that\* would infringe on my freedom of speech.  The fact that I would be allowed to do so \*is\* freedom of speech.

What you are mad about is not the loss of freedom of speech, but the \*content\* of what people are choosing to say.  The reality is that there has been a real cultural shift which has resulted in a lack of tolerance for ignorance.  You are bemoaning the fact that ignorance is no longer \*respected and listened to\* as if it is the equal of knowledge and sound morality.  This is different from saying that ignorance is not "allowed" at all.  You are free to utter whatever ignorant thing you want, you are not free from the repercussions of your words.
The problem lies in believing that you are absolutely right and that someone else’s views are so ‘wrong’ that they shouldn’t be heard by anybody else. When censorship starts to happen. When people are losing their jobs and being threatened and abused, essentially having their lives ruined for voicing their opinions, things have gone too far. That’s when we start moving towards authoritarianism. And we’re seeing it now.
You may think someone else’s opinions are hateful and even dangerous; but who’s to say you’re right about that?
As Nietzsche said, “the road to hell is paved with good intentions”.
But you know, I dont think it's  "good" for ppl to say racist things but I'd rather know they think that then keep it hidden. Are they saying it's better if they dont say those things and think them or that those thoughts will just disappear if they dont tell everyone? I agree with you. I think this ideology is very faulty and uses emotion against ppl to manipulate them as in "well you're  not a racist/sexist whatever  hateful thing right?" Well good you're with us then. This is what we believe. I could be wrong but I say this from encountering ppl who tell me these things but dont have a solid philosophical base behind what they say. I think a lot of it is "virtue signaling".
Okay, so you’ve removed all the context from why these outrage culturists are so outraged. Why do you think that is?
So I think the issue here is that free speech is both a constitutional right and a generally regarded "natural right". That is to say, although it's enshrined in the Bill of Rights, it's not really something the government *gives* you. So on one hand, legally speaking, Ben Shapiro still enjoys free speech and nothing a non-government organization or group of people does will change that. His constitutional free speech is only violated by government actions, not those of individuals.

To the broader sense of the term, and the definition I suspect you're primarily referring to, Ben's points are typically based on absolute stretches of logic, cherry-picked data, or outright lies. His speech has consequences. All of us have consequences to our speech. His consequences are that people who view his speech as hateful, misleading, etc. exercise their rights (again, natural not constitutional) to counter that. Free speech does not mean consequence free.

Likewise, and to quote Qui-Gon Jinn, the ability to speak does not make you intelligent. Just because something *can be* said does not give it value. Yes, college campuses are generally a place for differing or dissenting opinions. That's one of the things that aids in the collective education process. But that doesn't mean every opinion must be granted equal merit. Who's to decide, you ask? Well, the people do. The very people rising up against him. If he had the consent of the majority you'd see more support than protest. But that's not the case because he's generally viewed negatively. So while he can indeed say whatever he wants, nobody personally owes him an opportunity. The burden is on him to speak to a supportive crowd, not on the crowd to be supportive.
/u/HotFlamingo7676 (OP) has awarded 2 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/i7fuxv/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_outrage_culture_exists_to/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)