Title: CMV: CNN identifying HanAholeSolo is not an infringement of free speech nor was it a threat

Post:
The first amendment is meant to protect you from government retaliation not from privately owned companies or individuals and CNN is not a government entity, so them identifying a person who has taken to attacking their business online is not a violation of the first amendment. HanAholeSolo posted the gif and other hateful things in a public forum and they are being retweeted at the highest levels of American government, so it is not some little group that had shared it between friends and was never meant to go public.   
  
Claiming that you should have absolute anonymity on the internet dissolves anyone of any responsibility for their actions and speech. HanAholeSolo put those hateful comments and gifs out for the world to see and only did so because they thought they would remain anonymous and not face any social consequences for their actions. Basically CNN is a private company being attacked by a citizen who thought he could avoid social consequences and now that this person may have to face actual consequences for their action everyone is in an uproar like this guy should have absolute anonymity on reddit.   
  
As for it being a threat, how is it a threat when it's a social issue not a criminal one? I don't see reddit get in an uproar when the release the names of people suspected of certain crimes before a trial even happens, do those people not face social consequences such as harassment even after being cleared of wrongdoing? yes, they do. This is like recognizing your coworker online calling someone racial slurs and then telling him you saw him and if he acts out again you will bring his racial issues up in a public setting to make sure HR knows. Clearly the person posting these things did not think of the social implication, or they did and thought they could get away with it. So again claiming that individual deserves absolute anonymity dissolves them of having any kind of social responsibility for their speech and actions when posting in a public forum. CNN did not use any nefarious method to locate his ID they used publicly posted information from the account. Why should this individual be given extra care to avoid them having to take responsibility for their beliefs and actions?  
   
EDIT: Okay yes I understand it is "technically" a threat, but so would being an adult and going to a coworker and saying "I find XYZ behavior inappropriate and I would like you to change this or I will have to take this matter to HR", while technically a threat it is not inappropriate. The individual posted personal identifying info on a public forum where they assumed they were anonymous, they are not and therefor have to face the social consequences of their actions and CNN is not in the wrong to bring this to their attention and ask them to stop before they have to take it public.  
  
EDIT 2: I am going to work, but will respond as much as possible, thanks all for the discussion.

Top Comments:
its not an infringment of free speech, nobody is saying that.

It's just cringeworthy that they tracked down a meme creator on reddit. they're pathetic
>ow is it a threat when it's a social issue not a criminal one?

Let's say I track your Internet history and find some fetish porn you like to look at it.

Then I say "pay me $200 or I will send you porn history to your mom and to your employer."

Is that a threat?
Well, it's definitely a threat.  

The network is saying that they will do something he clearly doesn't want to happen unless they do what ~~he~~ they say.  That's definitely a threat.  I don't think there's anything wrong with revealing his identity but they're still threatening him with it.  

EDIT: Typo
>"I find XYZ behavior inappropriate and I would like you to change this or I will have to take this matter to HR"

Except that's an expectation of an employee in the workplace based off of pretty much every employee handbook ever written.

That's different from being a massive news network outing some kid's identity for the whole world to see. It was most definitely a threat with the intention of affecting his life negatively.

I'm not saying it's specifically illegal to do so, but it is most certainly a dick move on CNN's part. I lost what little respect I already had for them
>HanAholeSolo posted the gif and other hateful things in a public forum and they are being retweeted at the highest levels of American government, so it is not some little group that had shared it between friends and was never meant to go public. 

Well, I don't think this is really fair at all. /u/HanAholeSolo did not create the gif with the intention of it being co-opted by the nation's highest office, nor is the decision to share it an appropriate one on the President's part. 

The real "story" here is not that a young asshole posted something that is, at worst, cruel and destructive to CNN in an online forum.  The story is that the President of the United States of America thought it prudent to endorse that cruel and destructive message from his platform. It is, at best, bizarrely self-involved for CNN's focus to be on the creation/creator of the .gif, and not the President's decision to share it as his own. 

>Basically CNN is a private company being attacked by a citizen who thought he could avoid social consequences and now that this person may have to face actual consequences for their action 

Well, yes, but who has more power in this scenario? The lone redditor posting hateful things in his bedroom, or the multi-million dollar media conglomerate with a global audience? Don't you see any issue with CNN's inability to brush this off? The "consequences" outweigh the transgression here, especially given that the discussion isn't "The President is taking cues from hateful internet trolls," but rather "We know who this hateful internet troll is." 

>As for it being a threat, how is it a threat when it's a social issue not a criminal one?

I don't think it's a threat, but it's certainly coercion. They (1)clearly self-identify the consequences that /u/HanAholeSolo stands to face, they (2) acknowledge that /u/HanAholeSolo is themselves aware of these consequences and seeks to avoid them, and (3) directly imply that CNN will bring these consequences to bear should /u/HanAholeSolo engage in behavior they find to be distasteful. 

>Why should this individual be given extra care to avoid them having to take responsibility for their beliefs and actions?

I don't know that they should be given "extra care" to avoid having to take responsibility for their actions. If someone who knew this person made their online activities known to a real-world community they were a part of, like their employer, I'd say there was a fairer leg to stand on. 

What's happening here is that a massive media network is exerting extra effort to string this person up, when their online behavior is hardly the issue. It's an act of revenge, not the pursuit of journalistic integrity, and it's particularly concerning when the avenue of journalistic integrity (discussing the fact that the sitting President is retweeting horrible internet trolls) is quite plain.
>This is like recognizing your coworker online calling someone racial slurs and then telling him you saw him and if he acts out again you will bring his racial issues up in a public setting to make sure HR knows. Clearly the person posting these things did not think of the social implication, or they did and thought they could get away with it. So again claiming that individual deserves absolute anonymity dissolves them of having any kind of social responsibility for their speech and actions when posting in a public forum.

Something to consider here is the contexts: Your example was somebody in a workplace. There's a VERY different context then posts on reddit. There's not an expected level of proffessioanlism, nor are you there on a "whitelist" to do a specific job.

Really, I don't think a site like reddit is analogous to really in real life location or circumstance. Email is pretty analogous to normal mail. A private, smaller fourm you need to be invited to is pretty analogous to private clubs and organizations in real life. 4chan might be akin to a public pub where rowdyness and debauchery are to be expected.

I don't think reddit is any of those things, but I would argue in terms of 'air" reddit is more private then public: It's not really easily possibly to just randomly come across a given reddit post unless you are browsing reddit and looking at content to begin with on a given subreddit. 

A second thing to consider is proportionality: I don't think anybody would have minded somebody singling out this user, and calling him a dumbass or something similar on twitter or on reddit. But you need to put this into perspective here: CNN is one of, if not the largest news organization on the planet. This was a front page story. Had this person's name been published, it would have been finficinail and social sucide for this person. Their life would permanently ruined.

It's possible to adknowledge that they were being an idiot, while also acknowledging that what they did didn't deserve that. This guy isn't a rapist, or a murderer, or a theif (at least, as far as we know: if he is he can charged as such). He's somebody who made some racist posts on a private website that like less then .001% of the site's users would have ever seen had this not blown up. That's not a proportional punishment.

Lastly, and this is, IMO, the most important point: Consider the impact the threat of doxxing by CNN would have on people who *aren't* racist, sexist, or any other category you wanna define, but are making points that can be misconstrued that way.

Here, it might be a legitimate racist (we don't know though, might have just been shitposting), but next time, it might be somebody saying something that's not racist, but people read it that way. What this sort of callout culture causes is people just not wanting to speak up even if they hold perfectly legitimate viewpoints just to avoid controversy.

A good example of why that's bad is [Rotherham child sexual exploitation scandal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rotherham_child_sexual_exploitation_scandal), which wasn't uncovered/dealth with for decades despite people knowing kids were being abused because the perpetrators races and people didn't want to be accused of being racist if they spoke up about what was going on.

The ACLU, and basically every other civil liberties advocacy group, is just as concerned about this sort of thing or social media companies deleting racists posts as they are about goverments commiting injustices. I don't see why people think that it's impossible for private entities to damage free expression but also are concerned about their ability to harm the environment, manipulating the economy, and so on.  

I'd be happy to clarify on that last/third point, if you need me to. 
Here is the huge issue that hasn't been discussed much. I don't trust CNN to provide context if they were to reveal this person's identity and what posts they made.

All they'd do is quote the text, without giving important context such as what he was responding to, and what sub he was in. Making anti-semitic comments in imgoingtohellforthis is vastly different than doing it in this sub, or in politics.