Title: CMV: Reddit is the perfect example of the importance of, and limitations to, free speech

Post:
A regular topic on reddit is moderation with many people complaining that moderators are heavy handed dictators who spoil reddit for the rest of us and this is fundamentally linked to debate around free speech. But reddit can be used as an example for every side of the debate, for why free speech is important, of the dangers of unrestricted speech, of what reasonable and unreasonable restrictions look like.

First of all, my thesis, it is vitally important that new and dissenting ideas can be shared freely for the effective operation of a democracy, however it is equally important that these views and opposing views be expressed and heard in a civil and ordered way for the sake of effective communication, we cannot achieve both these goals simultaneously without moderation of speech.

Why Reddit is perfect support for my thesis:

When there’s no moderation reddit (or any communication forum) quickly becomes a cesspit of hate, outrage and conflict. That’s the downside of free speech, it allows behaviour that is counter to our aims of a peaceful and fair society. Reddit also shows us the dangers of over moderation, there are pages which are actively hostile to dissent and excludes anyone that fails to agree with the consensus, regardless of their behaviour. This post was inspired by the England football fans page which has just announced it will ban any Americans after a wave of posts after the Fifa World Cup draw (I won’t link it as I don’t want to invite further negativity to the page), that’s an overreaction that may well turn the page into nationalist echo chamber. I have experienced other pages where this has happened, many political pages suffer from this problem and I will never forget my experience trying to offer a different perspective on a child free page.

However, reddit can get it right as well demonstrating the value of good moderation, r/CMV does an excellent job of allowing a vast range of views to be shared and moderates the conversation effectively removing anti-social behaviour and ensuring societal rules are followed, I have no problem with the bans I’ve received when my frustration has got the better of me and I have engaged in debate with countless people with different views to myself on the page to my (and occasionally their) advanatge. The pinnacle of good moderation is, in my humble opinion, r/askhistorians which is absolutely draconian in its enforcement of its rules but, crucially, does so in service of quality discussion rather than silencing dissenting or controversial views. As long as your posts are well supported academically you can say what you like on that page and it's output is exemplary.

Ultimately good moderation is vital to the successful operation of a reddit page, and that proves that unrestricted free speech is not the ideal, well moderated speech is.

Top Comments:
/u/Subtleiaint (OP) has awarded 1 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/tw0dbs/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_reddit_is_the_perfect/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
This is sort of like the idea that the most effective form of government is a benevolent, omniscient dictator. Yea we would all want to have good mods in every sub but there's not really a great system to ensure that happens. 

And then there's the problem of subjectivity. One person's heavy moderation is another person's light. You go to /r/conservative, bastion of free speech, and you have a bunch of folks getting banned for pretty basic dissent. Obviously there's some people who also believe it's *still* not modded enough complaining constantly about brigading. It's definitely not even that sub by the way, it's just a convenient example where people are duplicitous about their views on freedom of speech.

So we're stuck. How do you ensure "good moderation" IRL for the maximum number of people?
But on Reddit if you don’t like the rules the moderators have, you can go to another sub.  When AskReddit banned any question that had anything more than a title to further explain the details, people who wanted to ask more nuanced questions had plenty of other options.  

If you are a citizen of a country and the government decides what you have to say needs to be silenced, moving to a new city, state, or country, isn’t a viable option.

It’s easy to hold the view “any moderation is usually better than no moderation at all” until you are the one being silenced.  

Plenty of people living in Nazi Germany would likely agree “living in Nazi Germany is better than living in a purely lawless anarchy”, but there would be plenty of Jewish people who would disagree on a personal basis and many would still agree that a horrible option being better than an even worse option doesn’t exactly make it any less horrible.
You fall into the most common liberal fallacy. Inclusivity and tolerance is the ultimate goal, but this is *overtly exclusive act* towards anyone who suggests tolerance and equity isn't the ultimate goal

You can't argue that free speech is facilitated by healthy moderation, as any attempt at moderation is an active move against free speech. 

You also have people who conflate opposing opinions with hate speech, and hate speech with violence. For example, I just got banned on r/politics for a completely innocent statement of fact, which a mod conflated to the level of hate-speech: 

https://www.reddit.com/r/LouderWithCrowder/comments/tvk48i/im_absolutely_raging_at_rpolitics_mods/?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share

This post I made yesterday is a perfect example of how moderation is heavily one-sided, authoritarian and oppressive to those of us who do not believe in the inclusivity agenda.

In my view, if you are not directly advocating violence, then you shouldn't be censored. If you are disrespectful to the people you are talking to, mods should ask it to be re-drafted without profanity or face a temporary ban. This  way, then only speech that gets removed are direct calls to violence, which is a clearly defined line which both sides generally agree is problematic.
>  it is equally important that these views and opposing views be expressed and heard in a civil and ordered way for the sake of effective communication, we cannot achieve both these goals simultaneously without moderation of speech.

I understand what you're saying - and tend to agree in spirit - but I also think there's a tendency to over-emphasize the role of "civility" in useful communication. 

Reddiquette would seem to preclude straight-up calling someone a dickhead for their views. This is assumed to be conducive for "good" communication. But it doesn't stop someone from being smug, arrogant, supercilious, presuming, a know-it-all, sealioning, being unresponsive, strawmanning, shilling, or a whole host of other things that detract from a good conversation. The more I use Reddit, the more I feel like you have some of the most vicious, dislikeable people on the internet just kind of hiding behind this veneer of "civility". They're not doing anything that gets them banned from CMV or whatever, but they're also just *terrible people* nonetheless. So the whole "ban those who would call others a wanker" thing just seems more like a bandaid to the issue.

The second point is in regards to:

> When there’s no moderation reddit (or any communication forum) quickly becomes a cesspit of hate, outrage and conflict.

Well, what exactly is wrong with outrage? Like, if you were living in Cochabamba in 1999, why *wouldn't* you be outraged at Bechtel? If you were living on a reservation and had no clean tap water because Nestle was draining it, why *isn't* it ok to be angry and outraged and pro-conflict? Why is it ok for *you* to be banned fror calling Nestle a bunch of cunts, but a Nestle spokeperson would be A-ok delivering some spiel in corporate-speak because they don't use no-no words?
First, I want to commend you on your CMV. It was well-written, well-thought out, and succinct. I will try to make my post equally so. 

While reddit has some commonalities with society at large, I don’t think the analogy works well for a variety of reasons. 

First, moderation in different subs needs to be different. For example, I am part of r/survival. It is a survivalist sub that educates and discusses…you guessed it, survivalist subjects. It is perfectly acceptable and good for a mod there to ban posts that talk about, say, politics or humor, that is unrelated to survivalists.  That is how it should be. It might be heavy handed but it is justified by the subject matter and the need to keep the subject on subject. 

I am also on a variety of political subs, some of those make it very clear that they cater to a specific subset of politics and won’t tolerate viewpoints contrary to theirs. Someone mentioned, r/conservative. They are right about that sub but it specifies that it isn’t for debate but, for education and discussion from a conservative viewpoint. Again, that is acceptable. 

r/politics is an example of a sub that claims to be an open political sub but, in practice, isn’t. Any conservative viewpoint is shutdown either by mods or by the cancellation of the view by the liberal and leftist bent it has. While it claims to be for free discussion, it effectively doesn’t. That shows the danger of both moderation and “cancel culture” on speech. So much so, that conservatives and others on the right don’t even attempt to go to r/politics which is sad. It ultimately forces people into their own echo chambers. 

The public sphere shouldn’t be like that. While the local Republican or Democrat parties should have a certain ability to expect people to fall in line at meetings, in the public sphere, there needs to be, to greatest degree, freedom to say pretty much anything. I would go as far as to say that it should be illegal to fire someone for something they say on social media and such. 

Because this isn’t true, and people are losing their jobs for their beliefs and what they have said, it puts a cooling effect on speech. I am trying to avoid specific examples because I don’t want this to get political but if you search you can find where people’s speech has resulted in their being fired from work or being cancelled by others, which can have the same effect. 

You have to have some moderation on reddit but in society, moderation should be kept at the most minimal possible level. If not, you get a leader who doesn’t like your speech and can choose to mod you out of the conversation.
Reddit is a perfect example for YOU. I don’t think moderating speech should be a thing period. You can moderate legitimate hate speech. And when I say hate legitimate hate speech, it has to be someone blatantly trying to be disrespectful and not this nonsense that people say is hate speech cause their opinion differs and mods happen to be sensitive too. 

I don’t care how sensitive you are as a person. Reddit is a thought sharing platform and people shouldn’t be banned for sharing their valid opinions because it goes against your echo chamber where you can freely spew nonsense that crazies are allowed to think is normal. 

People are free to have ridiculous ideas on certain subreddits and the mods will kick anyone who straight up tells them “You have no idea what you’re talking about and your ideas are legitimately insane”. Why would I ever support limitation of speech? Spew all the garbage you want just as long as I can tell you how dumb it is. You’re only ruining your own image. 

Reddit has turned into safe spaces for people who cannot handle jokes. Cannot handle criticism. Cannot handle any negative feedback PERIOD. Anyone who supports this stuff is idiotic. It’s like your sheltering your child from the real world and they assume everyone thinks like them. That’s harmful in the worst way cause you’ll end up with a person who has no idea what the world actually is. 

Rant over. Fuck mods who are too sensitive. I will give props to this subreddit. They don’t remove comments unless it’s just something off topic and asshole-ish.
Well, there are a ton of subs that are poorly moderated and successful, so I disagree with your last sentence.

I think reddit is not a great analogy for the government. If there is a poorly modded sub reddit, oh well, it is what it is. If the government "poorly moderates" our free speech the consequences are dire
Reddit is not a democracy though.  It's an oligarchy.

Mods are appointed by other mods and they get to decide what is and is not acceptable to have on their subreddits.

Would you have ever guessed that [Biden's job approval rating](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/other/president-biden-job-approval-7320.html) is lower [than Trump's](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/other/president_trump_job_approval-6179.html) but you don't ever, ever see a front page post about what a bastard Biden is?

That's Correct the Record & ShareBlue and [that DNC organization that ran BLM until the mansion controversy, ActBlue](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/black-lives-matter-drops-from-actblue-following-washington-examiner-expose) money in action.

Reddit is a great example of why free speech is important.  It's because with unchecked overlords... your worldview gets real fucked up real fast.
Can you explain the importance of limiting free speech on on social media such as reddit? I don't see a valid reason, and I don't see how articulated why it is important.

Moderation cleans out the obnoxious squeaky wheel that isn't helping the conversation. But that's just a convenience.

We can censor people who write hurtful things, but gain, that's to help our feelings. 

While these cations might make it a nicer place to visit, the censorship doesn't really help with ideas. 

Moderation of speech says the only "acceptable" discussion of the 2020 election is it was fair. Even though I can show you fraud that occurred in Wisconsin with the help private funding form a private corporation.  This conversation needs to happen if we want fair elections, right? 

We have a very serious problem with american media being very biased in nearly every form. Censorship allows for a one-sided view which leads to uninformed citizenry, which leads to bad government.  When government is cheering on censorship, they are hiding something. Arguments can be won with facts, and if that's not convincing, maybe you need to re-think your perspective.