Title: CMV: The "outrage" over corporate censorship is heavily mired in Partisan Bias: look no further than how people reacted to Colin Kaepernick vs Alex Jones

Post:
To elaborate:   


Colin kneels for the anthem, after being told by a Green Beret kneeling was more respectful. Conservatives and right leaning centrists are outraged for a myriad of reasons, with some being rooted in racism,  and complain. NFL sees this as harmful to their bottom line after  Trump makes a big stink about it, and decides it's better to not employ him. In a way censoring him because it wasn't that big a deal to NFL until Trump made it bigger than it was. Liberals felt that he shouldn't have been censored or blackballed for myriad of reasons because his expression wasn't that harmful in their opinion.  Ultimately NFL is blackballing him because they don't want the attention from his form of speech or expression in kneeling. Left-leaning people see a problem in this, right-leaning people do not.   


Alex peddles false and dangerous information if you're left leaning, and truth and secrets if you're more far right leaning.  Said information has led to harassment, and other unsavory acts based on the what he speaks. FB/Spotify see this as damaging to their bottom line and also decide to ban him. Left leaning people do not see a problem in this, right/far right leaning people see it as a problem.   


It seems to me that people pick and choose based on their own confirmation bias, and that "corporate censorship" is just a problem that is subjective rather than objective.   


What I'm asking you, is based on these two polarizing situations, how can we not conclude that corporations will always have a subjective view on what to censor? Should/can they be held to an objective standard? 

Top Comments:
Your argument assumes that there in no truth, only opinions. It is possible to agree or disagree with Kaepernick, what he's expressing is an opinion (that the police are racially biased against black people and that systemic changes are necessary to avoid more police killings of unarmed black men). 

The same is not true for Alex Jones. Jones is making unsubstantiated claims without providing any evidence. He claims that Sandy Hook didn't happen, while offering no substantive evidence. His claims have been debunked multiple times, but his audience won't see or believe those debunkings. 

Whatever you think of Kaepernick's position, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice, Philando Castile, etc were all actually shot by police. A higher percentage of black people are shot by police than people of other races. His protests are built on facts, he just interprets them differently than conservatives. Jones' arguments are not built on facts, they're built on speculation which can and has led to the harassing of innocent people, including parent of the children lost at Sandy Hook. 

Truth is objective, not a matter of opinion. When we start to argue over which facts are true and not over how we interpret those facts, we lose the ability to have a real, constructive conversation. 
I think you're mis-representing the main problem that many people had with the NFL and Kaep.  

It was seen as a violation of first amendment rights because the president specifically was threatening the NFL with tax penalties if they allowed him to continue proteesting.  Trump's involvement changed it to a 1st amendment censorship issue because there was a state actor pressuring a private entity to censor someone's speech.  The NFL admits that Trumps statements directly influenced their decision to implement a kneeling ban.

Had Trump not been involved, there would still have been discussion over whether or not they *should* ban the protests.  However, there would not have been the discussion over the violation of Kaep's 1st amendment rights -- which was the biggest sticking point that 'the left' saw in the whole issue.  I feel, had Trump not said anything, there would have been concern over it but ultimately it would be seen as a private entity just doing something to protect their bottom line or their image.  Instead, it was a specific response to a government threat against someone's free speech rights.

With Alex Jones, I haven't seen any government involvement threatening repercussions to FB, Spotify, etc  if they fail to ban or remove him from their platform.  So it's seen as them removing something that doesn't fit in with the image they want to project as a company, and not as a government censorship issue.
>Ultimately NFL is blackballing him because they don't want the attention from his form of speech or expression in kneeling. Left-leaning people see a problem in this, right-leaning people do not. 

I am aware that in this case I am the exception that proves the rule, but as a right-leaning person I feel that Kap has been treated unfairly, both by the NFL and the average conservative. Even though his method of protest doesn't make much sense to me.

>Alex peddles false and dangerous information if you're left leaning, and truth and secrets if you're more far right leaning.

As a right-leaning person, I do not pay much attention to Alex Jones, and what attention I have paid has convinced me that it's a mistake for his listeners to pay attention to him. Unlike with Kap, where my conservative friends are pretty much unanimous, I am only aware of literally one acquaintance who considers him a good source of information. I think you overestimate how many people want to defend him.

I agree without reservation with what you call the "left-leaning" view of him.
Corporate censorship is based on the expected response of their consumers. I think an ideal response is to move away from any corporation that censors, left or right. Have the expected response be harshly negative, regardless of political bias.

I think the broad interpretation of speech rights that our court system has established should be held as a moral line for corporations.  These private companies may have no legal requirement to protect 1st amendment rights, but we can hold them socially accountable by choosing to boycott their businesses.
Your opinion of Jones doesn't change his message. Hes a fear monger who uses false facts and conspiracies, regardless of your own  opinion.
> It seems to me that people pick and choose based on their own confirmation bias, and that "corporate censorship" is just a problem that is subjective rather than objective.

I think you're misstating the NFL situation somewhat.

The NFL has never been good about or okay with political/social demonstrations. They fined Tebow for praying, fined multiple players for demonstrations on uniforms for domestic violence and cancer awareness and all sorts of other issues.  Kaepernick's protest did not solicit a similar response from NFL leadership, and the NFL audience noticed this.

When Trump interjected himself into the protest, it stopped being about what Kaepernick wanted it to be about and started being about the president. When the NFL saw how tolerance of these protests impacted their bottom line, that's when they acted.

The inconsistency of how the NFL handled a protest that benefited one side over another in Kaepernick's case is where the protest lies.

> What I'm asking you, is based on these two polarizing situations, how can we not conclude that corporations will always have a subjective view on what to censor? Should/can they be held to an objective standard?

The crux of it is the subjectivity. Either unsanctioned speech in the NFL should be okay, or it shouldn't. And saying it shouldn't should not be considered promotion of "white supremacy" or whatever if it's applied the way it has been over the last decade.

The social media problem is similar. Twitter is ridiculously hostile to conservative viewpoints while also seemingly being tolerant with hate and bigotry from the left *and* right.  Facebook has a similar problem, as does reddit and, frankly, any major media tech service: "hateful content" is tolerated to unknown extents, and controversial liberal/progressive speech is tolerated where "controversial" (in quotes because, for example, basic religious dogma about, say, gay marriage or trans issues should not be controversial as much as simply part of the conversation (as should "controversial" liberal religious dogma where applicable)) conservative speech is suppressed. If there was consistency or some sort of objective standard, people wouldn't complain that Alex Jones conspiracy theorizing on Sandy Hook is bad while Hamas coordinating deadly protests against Jews in Israel is "good."

The inconsistencies present a double standard, and that's where the problem lies. Combine that with the current mood on the left regarding free speech on a whole, and it's a recipe for disaster regarding what are pseudo-common spaces. 
Ok, I'll bite.

Disclaimer, I am conservative leaning centrist and I do feel that the Alex Jones issue is worse than the Kaep issue, but it has nothing to do with the content of either message.

The problem lies in two parts.

1. The overall goal of the platform:

 Facebook, YouTube and the like are all specifically designed for content creators to get their *personal* content out to the people. Their only goal is to distribute user content.

The NFL is peddling football. That's it's primary goal, to get as many people watching football as possible, so when hard politics start coming in it causes distractions from their main goal - football.

2. The effective Monopoly the major players have on the social media market.

Yes, there are other places on the internet that Alex Jones can go to sell his snake oil, but by removing him from the biggest websites he is effectively removed from his entire market.

This isn't necessarily as applicable now because of the stink that's been made about him, but what's to say that some smaller content creators haven't simply been blasted into Oblivion because of these tactics?

While Kaepernick was removed from playing football he was hardly banned from making content to further his message on any of the largest sites on earth.


So, due to the differences in platform goal, as well as the ubiquitous nature of the major media outlets I think that the Alex Jones issue is more insidious than Kaep.
The "objective standard" is hate speech and promoting violence. Kaepernick is actually protesting hate speech and violence. We have agreed that we, as a society, don't want hate speech and violence - those who espouse these views are fringe elements, and if they tried to incite violence in a public place they would be censured or even arrested. Corporations are entitled to expand their limitations as well - nudity, for example - and that's not a partisan issue either. And they could certainly expand it as far as they want to - cable companies could have curse words but tend to stick to the same standards as broadcast networks. Now, something being damaging to the corporation's bottom line is certainly a consideration, but preventing their platform from being used to do something generally considered against the public interest is always the most basic common denominator - the "objective standard" you are asking for.

Maybe that's not quite the right answer, if you're asking if corporations should be required to allow things that go against their values - that's how we get into some of the issues like Catholic-based companies being required to offer healthcare to cover contraceptives. Or if Alex Jones had a day job making boxes at a factory - could the company fire him for what he is doing outside of work on InfoWars? Or should a cake maker be allowed to refuse to make a cake for a gay couple? Perhaps that's more of what you are asking? That makes it a much bigger question whcih I'm not really ready to get into.

So if the question is "Don't all businesses worry about their bottom line in making their decisions, even if that leads to partisanship?" well, I guess that's a question of whether money drives business decisions, and that's a hard view to change. If the question is, "Should businesses be forced to act against their values?" well, the precedent is that we have protected classes and constraints on free speech and as long as a business can navigate their choices in a way that prevents illegal discrimination, businesses get to follow the policy they want. 
/u/Anansispider (OP) has awarded 4 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/95xrfi/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_the_outrage_over_corporate/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)