Title: CMV: "Free speech absolutism" will destroy Twitter

Post:
Aside from the fact that I don't think you should  believe an egotistical, insecure man like Elon Musk is acquiring Twitter for purely altruistic purposes, the idea of "free speech absolutism" on private communication platforms will have massive negative consequences. 

The most popular social media platforms have community guidelines, or limits on free expression and speech. The least popular social media platforms are the ones that let anything go. I believe this is the case because the moment you venture into free speech absolutism, platforms immediately get overrun by the extremes and fringes of society. Their presence scares away the vast majority of people who don't want to be innundated with bigotry and toxicity. Re-allowing previously-banned bigots and extremists on Twitter under the guise of "free speech absolutism" will make the platform more toxic than it already is, which will lead to a large exodus of people who will seek a platform with more sensible community guidelines.

I am open to having my mind changed, if you can show me how free speech absolutism will be a net positive to Twitter, or any social media platform for that matter.

Top Comments:
/u/newleafsauce (OP) has awarded 1 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/ubpysa/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_free_speech_absolutism_will/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
Has Musk given any indication that he is a free speech absolutist?  From what I’ve seen, he believes Twitter’s rules around speech are too restrictive (and perhaps implemented in a partisan manner) but there’s quite a bit of room between Twitter’s current rules and free speech absolutism.  My guess would be that Elon lands somewhere in there.  He has promised increased transparency around the rules, which I consider an absolute win for users.
Well, if the point of twitter is to make money that's one thing. No doubt if they actually made it an anything(or almost) goes style platform it could be a disaster for an ad money model. 

As a propaganda tool it could still certainly serve various special interests, however. So it would repurpose twitter, although you might consider it a destruction of the current kind of internet space twitter is.

I don't think it will be overrun by extremes and fringes though, unless they change the compartmentalized structure. I don't use twitter much, but you can customize the experience enough to tune out the fringe, no? Like with reddit, I'm not necessarily exposed at all to extreme/fringe subreddits if I set up my profile.
The problem is that the people who make the decisions on what gets censored tend to have a particular ideology, so the censorship skews heavily in one direction. Musk has said he wants more Transparency on the algorithms. Twitter should be more accountable and provide justification when somebody gets banned. I believe there’s some other social media that randomly selects users to judge whether a post should be censored or not. Perhaps something like that can be used in certain cases versus having some random employee simply click a button and permanently banned someone without any particular reason. Free-speech can be a very uncomfortable thing for some people and the impulse to censor is natural when you see other people saying things that are directly counter to your core beliefs but ultimately we live in a country of over 300 million people and at some point you’re gonna run into somebody who simply has a different belief system than you and it may be very offensive to you. However censorship is not always the answer.

I get that some people are there to stir the pot and will say the most egregious thing possible for attention or they simply believe in something stupid and bigoted. By removing the bots and possibly requiring people to authenticate that they’re a real person we could chip away at the bots and the idiots overtime. And if you’re still offended by somebody who thinks differently you can just always block that person. We cannot force the world to cater to every sensitivity that everyone has otherwise it would be impossible to maintain a platform that’s designed for interaction with millions of other people. What’s happening with musk is simply a reaction to twitters speech policy. 

Whatever solution in Musk comes up with or anyone else for that matter will never please everyone somebody will always complain. If you’re so offended by a particular decision on how the company should be run you don’t necessarily have to be on the platform. Ultimately a decision has to be made on how to serve the greatest number of people effectively and fairly.
>The most popular social media platforms have community guidelines

Musk isn't about to delete all of Twitters rules

>or limits on free expression and speech

Even 4chan has limits on free expression.  

>The least popular social media platforms are the ones that let anything go.

They are the least popular because they weren't first.  People want to be where everyone else is.  

All of the alternatives to Twitter never let ***anything*** go.
If people get to say what they want, they'll come back. 

Remember how after Trump got banned, millions of people signed up for that parlor site? Twitter could hold onto those people if they didn't ban him. 

Why would any social media site want to lose users? The less users, the less money they'll make.
I think you're missing the other half of this, which is the use—or threatened use—of government power to take away social media companies' speech/press rights and enforce this "free speech absolutism" everywhere they can online. We already saw this with Executive Order 13925, but people are advocating for even more substantial changes. If there's nowhere else for the users to be scared off to, then the exodus you are suggesting won't happen.