Title: 3 Announcements

Post:
This is a pause from your normally scheduled programs to update you on a few changes here on r/moderatepolitics. None of these are groundbreaking, but as always we are interested in your input, suggestions, and objections. Please feel free to leave them below or join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/c2txh3t) and mention an @moderator.

Firstly, there has been an increased mention of throttling. For those of you who don't know, if you get downvoted enough reddit itself (not us) will prevent you from commenting or posting for short periods of time. We do not like this rule, not one little bit Sam-I-am. So we are taking measures to work around it. It is possible to put these individuals on our "Approved Submitters List". This list does not grant any type of status or perks. There are no brownie points with the moderators (In fact, I dare say the people on this list will be people moderators typically disagree with.). It simply removes the throttling measures of reddit. This mysterious list may or may not have a limit of 100 subscribers; I have yet to confirm this. So, if you are reading this and find that you are \**regularly throttled*\* (please reserve this list for those who need it), please notify us via modmail or the discord link above, and we will happily add you. \*We reserve the right to remove people from this list for ban-able offenses and inactivity.

Secondly, we have also seen an uptick in comments that call for violence. We take this very seriously. As the impeachment continues and as we get closer to the general election, we can expect tensions to rise here in the US.  This is normal, but it does not mean that infractions are acceptable. We have included reddit's rule against violence in our sidebar. This rule has always been in effect since it is reddit's rule, but to remind everyone we have now made it part of our rules. This is not really a change, just a reminder and notification.

>Do not post content that encourages, glorifies, incites, or calls for violence or physical harm against an individual or a group of people. We understand there are sometimes reasons to post violent content (e.g., educational, newsworthy, artistic, satire, documentary, etc.) so if you’re going to post something violent in nature that does not violate these terms, ensure you provide context to the viewer so the reason for posting is clear.

Thirdly, we have added an exception for starter comments when posting primary sources. The reason for this is that we think primary sources are the best sources for posting and commentary here on r/MP. We do not want anyone to feel like they cannot post a primary source simply because they can't think of what to say. What we call a primary source will be tightly controlled. Primary sources are sources that are as close as possible to a politically news making event. For instance, drafts of congressional bills, polling data and its methodology, scientific findings and its data, live video etc... Anything that edits, editorializes, analyses, opines, influences or changes the information in any way is NOT a primary source. For instance a live CSPAN video of impeachment hearings would be a primary source, but a random youtuber or even major media source that comments on the live video is not a primary source. For the sake of clarity, we are not treating "news" as a primary source. Unless there is an unedited video or documentation of the "event" a news report is not a primary source. Rule of thumb for primary sources is 2 questions - Is it reasonably possible to get closer to the political news event, and does my source, in any way, comment on the news event? If the answer to both of those questions is no, it is probably a primary source.

Top Comments:
This is one of the few political communities I still enjoy visiting. Thank you for trying curate a great place for discussion.
Regarding the the theoretical 100 person limit, I don't think this is the case.

in /r/AskTrumpSupporters, every Trump supporter has to be added to the approved submitter list due to downvotes, and there are well over 100 of them there.
Slightly off-topic. It's confusing that you regularly link to /r/MP since that is a link which does not actually work or re-direct to /r/moderatepolitics. It's even in the sidebar, but it leads to nowhere.
>For those of you who don't know, if you get downvoted enough reddit itself (not us) will prevent you from commenting or posting for short periods of time.

Didn't know this- how long is the short period of time?

&#x200B;

Edit; formatting
This looks like a wholesome expression and it reflects well on the mod team for this sub. Thanks for the thoughtful post & update.
I was thinking the other day how the concept of users downvoting and essentially silencing others in the sub was pretty immoderate. Let each argument speak for itself.
Reminder, if Trump ends up not having committed any crimes, was framed for Treason w/ Russia, USAID in relation to Ukraine, Iraq, Tunisa, and Jordan, along with military aid to places like Egypt ends up amounting to the embezzlement of taxpayer dollars, Flynn's Turkey/Lobbying issue being an attempt by the DIA to work out the situation over Obama's failed Coup resulting in our nuclear armed Incirlik base being surrounded, etc etc etc

&#x200B;

Then this subreddit cannot reasonably claim to be "moderate" and is instead "unable to think for themselves, and unable to be objective."

&#x200B;

Thanks for reading, downvotes are victory points, please contribute.