Title: CMV: Moderator Abuse Should Be Punished More

Post:
I feel like moderators hold a ton of power on this site, power that the admins do not seem too interested in checking. I feel like it would be better for this site if they could at least punish mods who don't follow the rules of the subs that they moderate. For example, I remember a post on clevercombacks once that was critical of Elon Musk that was not a comeback at all and clearly in violation of the rules. A mod openly said something like "we know that this post is not a comeback and in violation of the rules, but we don't care because screw Elon Musk. We are not taking it down so stop reporting it". I am sure that it happens much more often than that, but that is one of the few times where they openly acknowledged it. To me, the fact that moderators can be so blatant about their abuse is unhealthy for the site and bad for the average user in general.

Another major issue is moderators using subs that they mod to push their own agendas when they are irrelevant to the sub. For example, I remember when a mod on the Pokemon Go sub made a pinned reply (one that shows up on every post in that sub) pushing a pro-choice rhetoric. He/she is free to believe in that rhetoric and spread it in the appropriate subs, but I feel like that was not one of them. If I remember correctly the pinned reply also stated that anyone that voiced opposition to that action would be banned.

A final issue I have is moderators using their power to craft subs into being something that isn't congruent to the title. For example Whitepeopletwitter and Insanepeoplefacebook are almost nothing except for Democratic propaganda, the former contains tweets from people that aren't even white and the latter contains posts that aren't even from Facebook at all. Nothing about either of those subs (the title or description) suggest that they are political at all but feature pretty much nothing but politics and the mods openly support it and ban anyone who doesn't. The worst example is Badchoicesgoodstories. The name suggests that it is a sub for people doing dumb but funny things and the description agrees with that. However, that sub is again, nothing but Democrat propaganda and if you complain about that, you are banned. Most of the posts are made by the mod of that sub and a handful of other accounts that I suspect are his alt accounts.

Top Comments:
Admins are using free mod labor to keep their website running. One of the perks of being a mod is being a petty little tyrant of their own domain. They wouldn't have as many volunteers for free labor if they made things fair. They might actually have to pay people to moderate their website, which they aren't going to do.
It's inherent to Reddit's business model, and that of any free site. With limited ad revenue, they only make money by drastically limiting expenses, which in practice means relying on unpaid mods for work that paid admins really should be doing. Five years from now bots will no doubt do at least 80% of today's admin work.  

Don't get too attached to any social network. There's going to be a lot of churn for another decade at least, with new providers rising and old ones falling, as everyone struggles to  provide a worthwhile user experience while also making money.
Isn't the whole point of reddit that if you don't like someone else's sandbox you can make your own and set the rules in that sandbox to be whatever you like? 

The admins are not supposed to be some supreme court that care about moderation of mods, but they just make sure that people follow the law and reddit's terms of service. 

So, vote with your feet. If some subreddit is unbearable, make a new one and convince others that it will have a much better moderation.
If I come to the park every morning and draw hopscotch and four square boards for everyone to play in, and then one day decide to draw them in a different color, you can’t force me to do otherwise.  Even if I said when I started that they would always be green, I can make them red today because I am the one making them.  You can complain to me and say you liked it green and that it’s a jerk move to change the colors, but you don’t own my volunteer labor just because I’ve given it in the past.  I could just as easily stop showing up altogether.

Reddit is an infinitely big park, and every one of us has their own chalk and chooses what boards to play on.  If you don’t like red boards you are welcome to find green ones or to make your own in another section of the park.  You could also tell me that you’ll help me make boards but only if you can make some of them green.  What you can’t do is tell someone whose time you are not compensating how they must spend that time.
One general problem with this is that this would place a large burden on the administration. That means it would cost a lot of money to hire super-moderators. 

1) Remember that you're talking about the same people who make the rules. They can just change the rules to suit them. 

Additionally, slavish adherence to the rules isn't necessarily a good thing. The rules are not a self-serving inherent good, they're a means to an end, which is a moderated subreddit that delivers the content the community wants. Sometimes that goal is better achieved by ignoring the rules.

2) That's a community decision how to handle that. Where mods abuse their power in a way that part of the community dislikes, the community can split just fine, and create a new sub. Assuming the interference is universally disliked, the new sub will take over. Assuming it's just you who has a problem, it will fail.

I'm... not even gonna go into the rest, because that would mean discussing politics with you, and I *really* don't want to do that. But I'd like you to explain how this is supposed to be viable.
Question: How would Reddit enforce that?

Moderators write the rules for the subs.  They can simply add a rule that says *Moderators can do anything they want* and they would be within the sub's guidelines.

FWIW, I generally agree with you.  I mod some subs and we try to be fair (we actually have a regular subreddit-wide discussion on rules, policies, & other issues), but plenty of other subs are not like that.
If mods get punished for what a community believes are abuse of moderator powers, what you'l get isn't well moderated subreddits with reponsible volunteer moderators.

You're getting unmoderated subreddits where anyone can post anything, making the whole concept of subreddits pointless.

Moderators are not going to line up to do volunteer work where they'll get punished because they displeased the users.

And no one will volunteer to watch the moderators either.

No one will make the effort of creating a subreddit and create any sort of rules because any large enough group can just claim abuse and turn the subreddit into something else.

Want to make a subreddit about cat shaped cookies? Not allowed because it's abuse not to allow cat shaped cakes which are technically cookies and why not just allow any cakes?

The creator of a subreddit is a de facto autocrat of said subreddit. The whole point of a subreddit is to be able to impose any specific rules, even completely asanine ones, as long as it doesn't break TOS.

That's the reason people create subreddits. It's a mechanism where the owner can limit duscussion in any way they want.

The system you imagine would not be reddit. It would be equivalent to Twitter hastags.