Title: CMV: People flocking to Rednote proves the Governments argument about the TikTok ban

Post:
Most people believe the reason the Federal Government banned TikTok was because of data collection, which is for sure part of it, but that's not the main reason it was banned. It was banned because of concerns that a foreign owned social media app, particularly one influenced directly by a foreign Government can manipulate US citizens into behaving in a way that benefits them.

No one knew what Rednote was 2 weeks ago in the US. All it took was a few well placed posts encouraging people to flock to a highly monitored highly censored app directly controlled by the CCP and suddenly an unknown app in the United States rocketed to the number 1 app in the country. 

This is an app that frequently removes content mentioning LGBTQ rights, anything they view as immodest, and any discussion critizing the CCP- a party actively engaging in Genocide against the Uyghurs. Yet you have a flood of young people who just months ago decried the US's response to the Gazan crisis flocking to an app controlled by a government openly and unapologetically engaging in Genocide. 

This was not an organic movement. If one is upset at the hamstringing of free speech their first reaction would not be to rush to an app that is controlled by a government that has some of the worst rankings of free speech globally. All it took was a few well placed posts on people's fyp saying "Give the US the middle finger and join rednote! Show them we don't care!"



Top Comments:
The move to RedNote is a form of protest. It's basically "Okay, we'll go to a literal Chinese app then if you're so worried about Chinese influence." Whether it's a good protest or not is another question, but that's what it is.
The extent to which the CCP astroturfed or influenced Americans to shift onto Little Red Book ("Rednote" is a deliberately deceptive translation) will likely forever remain unclear. However, it's not like this app was a totally unknown app over on Chinese internet either - it's a very popular app.

In other words, all it proves is that internet crowds move in herds, but not necessarily that such behavior was expertly calculated and engineered, and the belief that state-level actors are masterminds of manipulation generally doesn't track with their known track records. What's more likely is there was a groundswell of movement "for the lulz" to switch over and TikTok made no effort to suppress it.
So the other social media apps are okay because they influence citizens in a way that does benefit the US?

The Cambridge analytics scandal, gamergate, “the Jews will not replace us” rally, the fact that a large portion of the electorate gets their entire understanding of “identity politics” from fb memes…the list goes on and on for all these supposed completely organic movements that do nothing but harm Americans.

I’m certainly not moving to rednote, but as a minority, tik Tok was the only social media site I could cater a feed to do actual mindless, fun scrolling without being inundated with racist bullshit. And as an American, my data is not protected in any meaningful way anyways. So how can I see any value in the decision other than just to annoy me?

Like it’s acceptable to have Fox News constantly spew shit about the oncoming “white genocide”. It’s completely cool to have Tucker Carlson doing live propaganda performances from Moscow. It’s great that our incoming president constantly discredits all of our intelligence agencies to defer to Russia’s. And to the privacy issue, no alarms raised when the CPB uses drone surveillance on civilians inland and collaborates with other agencies to hunt down and identify protestors based off of etsy purchases during protests against police brutality.

My country is telling me it’s in their best interests to destroy me and I’m supposed to be worried about foreign influence?

Edit: To those of you that just lazily keep commenting “whataboutism”, that’s made up Reddit jargon that a lot of you use as an umbrella term to (hopefully unknowingly) address both red herring fallacies and legitimate counter points to formal logic.

For example, if part of your argument for why you are qualified for a job is that you are a dedicated family man and someone brings up all the times that you’ve cheated on your wife, that may not be directly on topic but it directly attacks the premise that you are, in fact, a dedicated family man. Whereas, if you the retort with how other companies hire known cheaters…that’s a change in topic, that’s a red herring, that’s *whataboutism*.

Applied here—bringing up how the US takes no other foreign influence seriously and has not tried to ban or otherwise reign in Russian disinformation attacks the premise that the US cares about foreign influence, because the topic is still addressing what the US does or does not do. Countering with “but China bans foreign apps as well so it’s only fair” is a red herring because now we are no longer talking about tik Tok or how the US handles foreign influence at all.

As an added bonus, some of you also do not understand deductive logic. I could go into a whole lesson about if, then statements and the difference between modus ponens and modus tollens, but I can guarantee that a good chunk of you that have read this far most likely have never really been exposed to formal logic rules like that before in an educational setting and that a larger chunk have stopped reading entirely before this point because the brain rot has already set in and your attention spans are screwed from social media, notwithstanding tik tok. That’s a major problem because if a society was taught critical thinking and formal logic, then it would be more difficult for the country to fall for any kinds of misinformation…but alas, y’all ironically let the Russians and home grown klansmen convince the country that education and the liberal arts are the enemy.
If all it took was a couple well place posts, then doesn’t that make the movement organic?

Would a couple well placed posts from Zuckerberg have had people flocking to Instagram? No. There must be organic demand for such a movement to occur.

You’re delving into conspiracy theories. 
But this is the problem with such targeted bans. Define the law so it covers the things about the thing you want to ban. Then anything else that is the same will be banned. Otherwise it’s useless.
Zuck, Musk, and Google heavily lobbied for the TikTok ban in a desperate attempt to gain back the market share that TikTok took from them. The move to a social media platform not remotely affiliated with any of them was a conscious decision from people who did not want to support those people/companies.

The fact that it's another Chinese company is just an extra dose of middle finger.
Using your argument, twitter, Reddit, YouTube and instagram should be banned in other countries cause we also influence how their people behave and use it to control and/or overthrow governments and foment dissent and anarchy in countries we think are a threat either militarily, culturally or economically.
So it is actually *desireable* to use tech that is controlled by an entity that is hostile to and free from the control of the US government if you live in the US, specifically because it means the US government will not be able to censor or monitor you as easily.

I have no love for the CCP, but I don't live in China or in any jurisdiction they control...so the CCP can't really hurt me. Like, they can't pass laws that limit me, or do anything to affect me beyond what I choose to interact with via an app that I can get rid of at any time.

Sure, they can and no doubt are manipulating what is going on in the app...but that is the case for *every social media app*. And again, the CCP has the least amount of actual power over me. For example, Zuckerberg is actively trying to change the laws that directly affect me, and is therefore obviously incentivized to manipulate Meta content to support that effort -- that is *way* worse than anything the CCP could do to me.

The reason the US government doesn't like people using these platforms is because it makes it harder for them to control the people of the US. That's it. And I have absolutely no sympathy for that goal. I have no desire for the US government to exercise control over who I am allowed to talk to or what I am allowed to talk about with them. They have no interest in protecting me or keeping me free -- they just want me under their thumb and their information control, rather than someone else's.

So I will happily take advantage of the enmity between the US government and the CCP and operate in the space between them that is created by their mutual distrust and efforts to thwart one another. That's not being "manipulated" -- that is me seeing that, in this case, my incentives are actually more aligned with the CCP than the US government or US social media orgs. So I'll take advantage of that.

As far as the CCP being involved in some heinous stuff, of course. But that doesn't matter -- *all* social media apps are complicit / actively pushing heinous shit. There isn't a way to avoid that at the moment, sadly.

And as far as the CCP biases, I wouldn't rely on one of their apps for critiques or the CCP or their schemes (any more than I would rely on the Washington Post for accurate critical reporting about Amazon or anything else owned by Jeff Bezos). Being able to navigate the biases of the multiple platforms you use is part of life online, and always has been. US platforms are not neutral, either. Honestly, they often support the CCP as well (maybe not in the US, but certainly in their Chinese versions).

Simply put, I have no respect for any efforts to stop me from talking to whoever I want -- I am perfectly entitled to talk to people outside the US about politics, and I'm even entitled to agree with them and try to implement similar politics here if I want. That is up to *me*, not the US government. And I am entitled to talk about whatever I want with people, so long as I am not conspiring to commit a crime or something of that sort.

I understand why the US government would want to interfere with that -- they want to dominate and control people, like all governments. But I have no respect for that desire, and feel no obligation to go along with it or refrain from disobeying it at every opportunity. I will do or not do as I please unless the US government can physically stop me...and I think things will be better for everyone including them if they recognize the futility of the effort and don't even try.
You have no evidence whatsoever that the move to Red note was planned or promoted by the Chinese government. You suspect that to be the case because you think that China is evil but at least in my experience there actually is quite a bit of organic support for the move to rednote mostly because it's funny and people are having a very interesting cross-cultural connection with Chinese people. 

If it actually was planned by the Chinese government, they probably would have made sure that rednote was fully functional in English before trying to push it as an alternative. 

Also, even if China was trying to subtly manipulate Americans politically we don't have a leg to stand on. The United States has used every possible sort of soft power for the past 100 years to promote our version of "democracy" "freedom" and anti-communism around the world. There is no country that has ever manipulated as many elections as we have. 

Finally, why would we care about Americans voluntarily using the Chinese Pinterest because they think it's funny and interesting, but not about a South African billionaire buying Twitter and turning it into a right-wing propaganda factory. A factory where said billionaire openly and blatantly supports right-wing content creators and conspiracies.
All it really shows is how stupid a specific ban on one company is. That you specifically say "Tik Tok", so someone else doing the exact same thing can do it.

And look, if you're saying that the people are so stupid they can't make up their own minds and are easily duped, you really have to shut down democracy.

I suspect the truth is that the TikTok ban is really about America getting scared that China was doing the things they want Americans doing (go on, make the iPhones, but we want the social media jobs).

It won't work though. You can play whack-a-mole, but you can't stop the signal.