Title: Weekend General Discussion - November 29, 2024

Post:
Hello everyone, and welcome to the weekly General Discussion thread. Many of you are looking for an informal place (besides [Discord](https://discord.gg/EJ4qAQu)) to discuss non-political topics that would otherwise not be allowed in this community. Well... ask, and ye shall receive.

General Discussion threads will be posted every Friday and stickied for the duration of the weekend. 

Law 0 is suspended. All other community rules still apply. 

As a reminder, the intent of these threads are for \*casual discussion\* with your fellow users so we can bridge the political divide. Comments arguing over individual moderation actions or attacking individual users are \*not\* allowed.

Top Comments:
My car crash and insurance debacle is done and somehow....  I win?

Insurance goes up $100 for the year.  Just $100. My new car is 3 years newer, my interest rate is lower, and my payment is about 10% less.  Not sure where all of this good luck came from, so fully expect me to post here next week about the asteroid that crashed into my house!
Hope everyone had a lovely Thanksgiving. My family couldn’t go a day without drama so I’m getting the hell outta dodge.
My husband's Kia engine threw a connecting rod, which is a known issue and has a recall. Except his VIN isn't part of the recall... Yet. So we're screwed. We were told they're seeing a lot of his engine now having the same issue as the already recalled engines but because his VIN is excluded we need to find a way to replace his engine ($6-8k) which we do not have and can not get. Plus we still owe on it and because of the lively Kia boyz it costs an absolute fortune to keep insured. Can't get rid of it with a loan and can't afford to fix it. Hoping those Kia boyz come through and take it since it's covered for theft but we already had that recall done. 

Moral of my story: DO. NOT. BUY. A. KIA. NOT. ANY. KIA. NO, YOURS ISN'T ONE OF THE GOOD ONES, JUST WAIT.
Well, I’m back from my two week Reddit hiatus.

In that time:

My cancer-fighting mom’s appendix ruptured and they took it out a week later

I had my work deficiencies (some of which I knew, some I didn’t) exposed to me in a meeting that was good but VERY humbling 

I have firmly decided that my work crush/friend is someone I’d like to be more than friends with. Now just deciding how to tell her…
How hard is a routine oil change in my sedan? Well--
- The gasket in the plug has gone missing, probably by the shop who last did the work for me.
- I couldn't hand unscrew the filter this time around and had to jerry-rig a mechanism to get it off in a cave with a box of scraps. 
- And Google's brilliant AI search results wanted me to believe that the car requires 10 quarts of oil (it in fact requires 5.3). 
- Oh and it's like 20 degrees in my garage.
Mine is Sunday, but I expect no drama.  My brother's partner does love him some drama, but the rest of us are far too laid back about everything.  My wife managed to make it through her family's turkey day with little trouble as our son is currently the golden grandchild.
Mine was alright, there was some drama but no one slammed a door or left in anger so I consider it a success.
Did you make anything fun?

Also, do you have time to explain to me why I just can't seem to get enough fat off my turkey to make gravy without substituting in butter? I had like two and a half cups of drippings. I let that sit on the counter for maybe 20 minutes, and nothing solidified on the top at all. I thought I would get at least a quarter cup of solid fat.

It turned out just fine. I just made a roux with butter and flour and then put in most of the drippings, thinned it out with a little chicken stock, and added the cooked meat from the neck, gizzard, and heart.

So it's all good, it was delicious, I'm just not sure if I'm doing something wrong to lose that fat. Did I toss it out with the aromatics which were in the roasting pan? Not wait long enough for the drippings to fully cool and separate? I only make a turkey once a year, so I feel like something always surprises me....