Title: CMV: Liberals have lost the desire to convince conservatives.

Post:
I recently went to a talk on free speech and hate speech. 

One of the biggest take aways I got was the amount of applause a line from someone when they said something allong the lines of "who are you (the oppressor) to define what hate speech is for us (the oppressed). "

While I absolutely understand and empathize with where this sentiment was coming from, the end result of this line of thinking is disastrous for liberal democratic societies.

It leads to a presumption that all those who differ from your definition of oppressed are either worthy of silencing, or that they are not worth listening to.



On a bigger level, I live in a liberal city, am a liberal, have liberal friends and family. What has been very surprising to me is the unwillingness to try engage and convince those with opposite viewpoints. 

I understand why it has gotten so much harder. The realities of people who self select information sources that confirm their worldview are constantly being reinforced into a deeper and deeper dillusion where alternative facts live.

I know this has been rambling and unfocused, but I guess I am just looking for some silver lining or hope that Liberals are trying to beat bad ideas with better ideas, and not a political correctness or censorship.

Top Comments:
>I guess I am just looking for some silver lining or hope that Liberals are trying to beat bad ideas with better ideas, and not a political correctness or censorship.

Ideas and facts and logic do not win political debates. If we all made political decisions based on these things, there would be little to no partisan divide. Political points of view are based on our associations. We find people that we like and then we adapt our point of view to more or less match theirs. Consider the fact that many Democrats who were up in arms about drone strikes under Bush found their position softened a lot when Obama continued them. Or that in the space of the last 2 years, most of the GOP has suddenly become pro-Russia and anti-FBI, two positions which would have been unfathomable for them 8 years ago. 

As someone with a left-of-center political philosophy, I haven't lost the desire to convince conservatives that they are wrong. I am simply adjusting my tactics to suit this very simple fact about human nature. No matter how cogent, logical, and factual my argument is, it will be dismissed automatically and perhaps even harden the person against my point of view *unless they also like me a lot.* My job isn't to share my better ideas, it's to simply continue to be in the lives of the conservatives around me and be worthy of their respect. As a husband, father, co-worker, boss, neighbor, veteran, friend, etc., I'm afforded plenty of opportunities to impress and endear myself to conservatives in ways that don't directly involve politics. After that bond is established, and provided I'm not a complete dick about how I express my political opinions, they are much more likely to think about what I have to say rather than dismiss it out of hand. If liberals cut conservatives out of their lives entirely, it's much easier for conservatives to imagine us all as chai-sipping gender-fluid coastal elites, hell-bent on installing a communist economic system under a Sharia-compliant legal code and forcibly replacing all depictions of Jesus with photos of Colin Kaepernick shitting on a headstone at Arlington. It is imperative to our survival as a country that when my MAGA-hatted uncle pictures a liberal, he pictures me and my family rather than the aforementioned caricature of us that seems to be popular in right-wing media. And I definitely don't want conservatives to be censored: I want them to feel free to shout out exactly what they think and feel so that more people can hopefully recognize how bad those things are. 

TLDR: we're better off **not** engaging in political debate with conservatives. We should just focus on trying to remain as amicable as possible, while generally avoiding politics. 
> It leads to a presumption that all those who differ from your definition of oppressed are either worthy of silencing, or that they are not worth listening to.

There's a huge, huge, huge difference between "That person is not worth listening to," and "That person is wrong for defining oppression to an oppressed person."  Could you explain how you got from point A to point B, here?


> On a bigger level, I live in a liberal city, am a liberal, have liberal friends and family. What has been very surprising to me is the unwillingness to try engage and convince those with opposite viewpoints.

How does this usually look, to you?  Specifically what viewpoints are you talking about?

Welcome to CMV, where liberals regularly attempt to civilly change the views of conservatives and vice versa. 

Here are some deltas (representing successful changes) on political topics like [Trump](https://www.reddit.com/r/DeltaLog/search?q=Donald+Trump+%7C+Trump&restrict_sr=on&sort=relevance&t=all), [gun control](https://www.reddit.com/r/DeltaLog/search?q=gun+control+%7C+guns&restrict_sr=on&sort=relevance&t=all), and [immigration](https://www.reddit.com/r/DeltaLog/search?q=immigration+%7C+immigrants&restrict_sr=on&sort=relevance&t=all). 

There are plenty more. That's not political correctness or censorship, it's moderated debate. 
I think that you need to define "liberal" here, because from my perspective you're talking about a quite narrow part of "the left" as if it represent everyone. Are there SJW-types (for lack of a better term) who think that anyone who voted for Trump is an irredeemable monster? Yes, of course. Are they especially prevalent in a place like Seattle? Certainly. Do they represent the Democratic party or the left generally? From my perspective, they do not.

The Sanders-supporting portion of the left seems like the best example here. A big part of their message is that the left can win back the portion of the white working class that has moved to Trumpian populism with aggressive economic reforms. 

Your bubble seems small. You should widen it. There are lots of smart liberals who do not engage in shouting wars about what people are and are not allowed to say.
Your post is about losing the desire to convince conservatives to change their views.  I have not lost the desire.  But the desire will never be satisfied, so long as conservatives cannot form logical arguments to support their beliefs, or form logical rebuttals of my arguments.  I am one of the only liberals in my extended family.  NONE of my family members have been able to produce a logical, well-thought out argument to support these beliefs:

1.  Evolution is not proven, or Creationism is just as valid
2.  Global Warming is a natural process , or Global Warming doesn't exist
3.  Privatization  and deregulation of prisons and schools is superior to state control
4.  Immigrants are responsible for bad economies, and/or getting rid of them will solve their problems
5.  Environmental regulations are bad for business, and therefore shouldn't exist
6.  Social services shouldn't exist
7.  Minimum wage kills business
8.  LGBTQ shouldn't have the right to get married
9.  Racism doesn't exist, or only exists in its reverse form against whites, or it does exist but doesn't affect wages, quality of life, etc of minorities
10.  Trickle-down economics is real
11.  Anything Fox News reports is worthy of more than 2 seconds of thought
12.  Wall street shouldn't be regulated
13.  America is the best country in the world, bar none, in every possible category of evaluation, and we can't learn anything from other countries/cultures

As long as conservatives continue to believe these things, without logical explanations, and are unable/refuse to rationally rebut my counter arguments, there is no reason for me to waste my valuable time and energy on them.  If current demographic studies are correct, these beliefs are on the way out anyway.  The vast majority of millennials are rejecting them, leaving only the aging baby boomer population holding on to them.  Their belief system is dying, and we are watching its dying spasms.  They have shown, repeatedly, that they are not able or not willing to change their minds, even when MASSIVE amounts of evidence to the contrary is readily available.  My desire to convince them is still there.  But I sincerely believe that they are unconvincable.  
My hunch is that polarization is just better for business than careful, nuanced discussion.  That is, fear of the "other side" motivates voters and tv viewers more than an earnest pursuit of the truth.

I'd like to challenge your view in two ways:

* Do you think this is unique to liberals? Or are you just more sensitive to it because you self-describe as liberal?
* Is there any sort of hard data you can point to that shows this is getting worse? Perhaps it's always been this way and you're only noticing now.
I am a conservative student, and I live in an extremely liberal state. Since I am an ideological minority in my area, I am often confronted by large groups of people who disagree with me.
I'll be honest, I've spent a lot of time talking to right wing individuals; friends, family, coworkers, random strangers on the internet, etc. Yet 95% of the time, they don't want to hear what you have to say, and they don't care what the facts or evidence says, they simply want to be right no matter what it is we're talking about. They constantly employ logical fallacies and mental gymnastics in order to validate their personal beliefs. I try to remain civil during these engagements but it ALWAYS devolves into petty insults to discredit my points rather than contrarian evidence. 
So yeah, maybe I have grown tired of being called autistic for attempting to educate someone on a topic I'm familiar with. These people are not at all interested in learning things about their reality, they just want information that confirms their pre-existing beliefs and everything else is "fake news". 
I'm a staunch conservative who absolutely hates leftists, but not liberals. I am not a republican and choose to identify as an independent because I believe the country needs different things at different times. So a conservative might be needed here but a liberal might be better here, that goes for a president too. I hate political tribalism because in my view we're all Americans first and foremost. It's not hard to change my view with cold hard facts. Same goes for people on my own side of the political divide I have a political philosophy of defensive mistrust, of my side and yours. I don't want to be one of those idiots who blindly follows anyone or anything. I don't move on my political beliefs unless I have very good reason, but when presented I'm proud to say I can adjust. Also my wife is a Hillary Supporting Democrat and we get along great. It isn't hopeless man people just have to make the effort to hear each other out. Which is very hard I'll admit, but I think as the radical left and right expose themselves us normal people will realign and be a big happy family again. I really honesty believe that but I'm an optimist. 