Title: CMV: "Cancel culture" is a conservative dogwhistle used to make leftists feel that fighting for social justice is somehow a bad thing.

Post:
A phrase I've seen used a lot recently in internet discourse is this idea of "cancel culture", moreso in the last few weeks because of controversy surrounding Dave Chappelle's new comedy special. Interestingly it seems like this idea has become popular even among the center-left (which I feel are fairly dominate on reddit) which I find odd. I often see comments saying something along the lines of "Oh I'm a big liberal/democrat and I support LGBTQ+ rights and yada yada, but damn I really hate what cancel culture has done to our society."

I personally think that cancel culture isn't even really much of a real thing, let alone a serious issue facing our society. I believe it is a dogwhistle used by the right to indirectly attack leftist activists that has successfully poisoned leftist discourse. I mean, seriously, let's take a look at some of the people who were "cancelled" recently.



-- R Kelly: Abused vulnerable women on mass, exhibited predatory behavior, basically ran a deranged abusive sex cult for years. Dose this person not deserve to be "cancelled?"

--Chris Pratt. Supposedly attended anti-LGBTQ church meetings. Is still immensely popular and is still getting work in a major motion picture. Was this person really "cancelled?" 

-- Dave Chappelle. Mocked the Me-Too movement, repeatedly made jokes punching down at the trans and gay communities. Again, Dave still has a major platform, tons of dedicate followers, and is a multi-millionaire. He acts as if his "free speech" has somehow been restricted yet he was and still is now free to say whatever he wants and has consistently been given a platform to do so. How has he in any way been "cancelled?"

--Billy Cosby. A literal rapist. Dose this person deserve to have a platform?

People often use the cancel culture phrase in relation to comedy, as according to them the problem somehow disproportionally affects comedians. I don't see why people seem to think that comedians are entitled to a platform? People act as if comedy is somehow immune to criticism of its content. That comedy must be "protected speech" in some capacity. I really don't agree with this, I think comedians should be as open to anyone else is for criticism of the social impact of their content. At the end of the day a comedian's goal is to make people laugh, and if someone who is trans or gay or otherwise disadvantaged finds a piece of comedy distasteful they're perfectly justified in saying "I don't find this funny and I don't think this person deserves a platform like this."

Perhaps I'm just rambling at this point but I think some people have this odd view in their heads of "free speech." They think that free speech means that every single person is entitled to a platform that they can use to broadcast their message to others. That every single person has an inalienable human right to use twitter, reddit, youtube, or stand up comedy to spout their views out to the world. In my opinion that's simply not the case, free speech only entitles you to protection from the federal government in relation to your speech, it doesn't mean that private institutions such as Netflix or Twitter or whoever has an obligation to use their platform to publish whatever you say.

Top Comments:
> I personally think that cancel culture isn't even really much of a real thing, let alone a serious issue facing our society. I believe it is a dogwhistle used by the right to indirectly attack leftist activists that has successfully poisoned leftist discourse.

Have you considered that “cancel culture” is a deliberate mischaracterization of a real problem? That social media has a role in people jumping to conclusions too quickly without enough thought and evidence, and this trend has been hijacked and distorted into a political buzzword?

I think saying it isn’t “real” is painting with too broad strokes, and probably only encourages people to dig in deeper.
Cancel culture refers to the phenomenon in which people utilize social media to band together and form witch hunts against people who may, or may not, have said or done something they disagree with and effectively erase them from society. Many times digging up a persons past and using it against them, even taking things out of context and ignoring any and all evidence to the contrary to further their cause. It becomes an echo chamber and a mob mentality. 


It does not refer to when people have been rightly prosecuted and convicted in a court of law for committing crimes and are serving prison time. 


This is not a Republican or right leaning buzz word or phrase, as evidenced by me, and yourself, as I am neither of those things, and I despise cancel culture.


Edit: spelling
First, I don't know if anyone who would consider Cosby or R Kelly an example of cancel culture.

But more importantly, celebrity examples are outliers because celebrities have wealth, PR teams, and the ability to ride out controversy. Regular people don't have that safety net. JK Rowling will realistically be fine for the rest of her life, whereas we can't say the same for some random person who's not rich or famous, despite this being a total inversion of their ability to do harm.

What's worse is that we have a political climate where it's safer to say ignorant things as an unrepentant reactionary than as a genuinely ignorant person. A person who would rather double down than learn can expect to be paraded around by the right as the real victim and have a community that's willing to take them in.
>R Kelly

He is facing life in prison right now.

>Billy Cosby

Also literally went to prison and got off on a technicality.
I definitely think the term cancel culture has been used to describe too broad a phenomenon. 

For example it's been used to describe when people have been ostracised, deplatformed, and 'called out' for bigoted behaviour. Like in your post. That I think is fine with me, play bigoted games, win bigoted prizes.

It has also been used to describe online harassment, abuse, doxxing, death/rape threats toward the 'cancelled' individual. [Contrapoints did a great video on the topic](https://youtu.be/OjMPJVmXxV8). This is the cancelling that I am dead set against, as it just pure unacceptable abusive vitriol and online mob violence against a particular individual or group. 

With that said it's a very nuanced topic, one where you can't say 'cancel culture is 100% good or bad' or that it doesn't have any negative consequences. It's too reductive to say it's only a phenomenon experienced by Conservatives when they're challenged or called out on social justice issues.
I think the important part of this is that the goal of cancel culture is to get a person deplatformed and removed from public life. Remove them from social media or their show from netflix or from their job.

As for celebrities, why does some unaccountable group on social media get to dictate what the rest of us get to watch? If you have an issue with Dave Chapelle for example by all means use your voice and your wallet to show your displeasure with him and Netflix for platforming him. Cancel your subscription and try and get others to do the same. If enough of the public agree with you then Netflix will remove him from their platform as to not lose money. Hell even if people aren't motivated enough to cancel their subscription but you convince them that Dave Chapelle is a bigot then they will avoid watching his standups which will prevent Netflix from hiring him again if he doesn't get enough views. If you fail that would tend to indicate that people want to watch him, why do you feel you are more important than them and have the right to dictate what they are allowed to watch?

Now when we get into people that aren't celebrities that gets more sinister. This is anecdotal but I think it is important to highlight the problem. My buddies old job bought new building and decided to hire a painter to draw some murals though some of the main areas to give it a little color. The artist drew a bunch or random cutesy stuff like a dinosaur riding a dolphin and little sushi people having a samurai fight. Some of the people in the office found that his little sushi drawing was racist because it contained racial stereotypes. So they pressured the company and got the artist fired. Not only that though they kept an eye on his career to reach out to people that hired him in an attempt to get him fired from their as well. So where does a story like that end? Does a person that a does something that a small amount of people find racist deserve to make a living? Cancel culture seems to say no. Does he deserve to live? Well if you can't make a living can you live? And if you can is it a life worth living?
The phenomenon of cancel culture erupts from the simple foundation of social media. It’s not enough to have an opinion. Instead everyone has to share that opinion and agree. Cancel culture is merely the result of a minority few disliking something and pressuring others to have the same effect. It’s not enough to not consume or not watch or turn off, but instead everyone needs to. Opinion meets authoritarian power. 

This exists regardless of political affiliation.