Title: CMV: Alt-Right Ideology Is Not Conservatism

Post:
Being on the Right is a political position on the political spectrum. Conservatism is a political ideology that promotes free speech, free marketing, and loving America. Just because someone is on the Right doesn’t make them a conservative. Examples of this include many on the very, very Far Right also known as the Alt-Right. The people who promote Alt-Right ideology may be on the Rightwing part of the political spectrum and may have more in common with conservatives than with liberals, but they are not conservatives.

That’s not to say that you can’t be Far-Right and conservative at the same time. You definitely have people who are radical and insane on the Far Right but seem to love America and capitalism such as Joel Webbon and Allie Beth Stuckey. But the Alt-Right is a specific type of Far-Right. They’re not conservatives at all.

Firstly, though there are exceptions of Far-Right conservatives who don’t support free speech, most moderate and centrist conservatives support free speech. The Alt-Right does not tolerate those whose political beliefs are different from their own. Also, unlike conservatives, people on the Alt-Right tend to favor socialism rather than capitalism and support a very big government. Lastly and perhaps most importantly, most on the Alt-Right tend to hate America and are not fond of Judeo-Christian values.

There are exceptions of Neo-Nazi groups endorsing Trump. However, most on the Alt-Right either want to destroy America, or perhaps even worse, transform it into something it was never founded to be. Of course, America has made its bad choices, but the Alt-Right wants to make America today seem like Hell compared to earlier times in America’s history. Back then only White men had fundamental rights, but the Alt-Right wants to even take away some of the rights written in the constitution from other White men. They include fascists and Neo-Nazis today in America.

So, the next time some woke progressive tries complaining about a conservative commentator being a Nazi, a fascist, or an Alt-Right person, just know that it’s not true. The Alt-Right is full of enemies to the founding principles of the United States, while conservatives are those who try to preserve the founding principles of the United States. Of course, another requirement is that you need to be on the Right as well. But that’s not the only requirement, because even if you were on the Center-Right and yet you disliked America and wanted to take away some fundamental freedoms (in which it’s highly unlikely that a Right-leaning centrist would want to do that) then you’re not a conservative, either.

Conservatism should not be equated with Alt-Right ideology. The Alt-Right and conservatism have plenty in common in other aspects of political ideology, but their fundamental principles from which they build their moral compasses are absolutely different. Not only are their moral compasses different, but so are their beliefs about government and how it should be run.

Top Comments:
/u/Wbradycall (OP) has awarded 3 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/1g2gvb3/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_altright_ideology_is_not/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
I mean you're correct in the sense that fascism sees itself as revolutionary and conservatism doesn't. There is a distinction between the two, especially when it comes to economics, but as other commentators have pointed out, if you expect your interlocutors to respect that difference, you'll need to distinguish between liberal, progressive, and leftist.
Your definition of conservatism, even just in the American context, is very ahistorical. America was in no way founded on free markets, and was intensely protectionist for much of its early history. Likewise on free speech, many of the biggest attacks on it have come from conservatives - McCarthyism, blasphemy laws (common until the late 1800s), obscenity laws, book bannings and laws against drag today, etc. 


"Loving America" strikes me as far too broad and ambiguous to seriously consider as a political principle. 
I think the problem is that the right wing (not just the alt right the entire right) isn't a coherent ideology but an electoral alliance between radically different ideologies that have shared interests. 

So you have your traditionalists, what we used to call small c conservatives, who are weary about change and look to defend the status quo.

Then you have your moralists, which is increasingly what we use the term conservative to mean, who are the ones who strongly support a judeo-christian moral code and/or ideas of patriotism, community etc...

Then you have your free market libertarians who believe in free market capitalism, the small state, freeze peach etc...

Those are profoundly contradictory world views. But when it comes to modern politics they gel together pretty well because each is at very least fairly indifferent to the things the others feel strongly about, and profoundly opposed to the left with respect to one thing or another.

The alt right's no different. It's a fourth profoundly different world view, but like the other three it is strongly opposed to the left and thus is part of the right wing electoral alliance. 

The difference is that some of the things the alt-right believe are offensive to the other three, whereas the other three were vaguely tolerant of each other's ideas even if they didn't share them. But at the same time unless and until significant movements in the other three decide that the alt-right is so offensive to them that they'd rather ally with the left against it then that offensiveness is somewhat moot since they remain part of the same electoral coalition nevertheless.
In the American political vernacular "the left" is often used interchangeably with "liberal" and "the right" is often used interchangeably with "conservative". 

You can be partially right by saying this is an oversimplification and big C Conservatism has a specific denotative definition which some use. I myself am not a big L Liberal but I am an American little l liberal because I'm on the left. 

So you are wrong because "alt-right" is on "the right" and is therefore little c conservatism in an American context. 

Is it an oversimplification? Absolutely. But if you agree that the alt-right is on the right, then you agree that in an American context the alt-right is under the umbrella of conservatism (little c). The most nuance we get here is "far left" and "far right".
>Conservatism is a political ideology that promotes free speech, free marketing, and loving America

Some CONSERVATIVES might do that, but that is not how conservatism is defined.  The current leader of the American conservative movement, for example, supports tariffs, runs his campaign on the premise that the current America is a place that is no longer great, and supports censorship of his critics and opponents.  He and his followers (and in fact the bulk of Republicans in general) define themselves as conservatives, and he also sees tremendous support among the alt-right.

**Conservatism is a political and social philosophy that emphasizes the value of maintaining traditional institutions, practices, and values.**

Fundamentally, the alt-right seeks to do those things through totalitarian means.
> So, the next time some woke progressive

And thus ends your argument. Labeling someone as 'woke' is a alt-right tactic.
I consider myself a conservative based on a majority of my personal views aligning with conservative views.  
That being said, I would not consider myself a republic, right wing, or alt-right. I don't agree with many republican opinions even if they seemingly align with my conservative ideals because I have the knowledge and understanding that the Republican party is only looking out for itself and it's investors. So I can't say I'd ever vote leaning on those principles.