Title: CMV: America's obsession with absolute free speech is dangerous

Post:
edit - Looks like I'll need to resubmit this with better wording because I'm getting tired of having the same conversations over and over.  
For the love of god, this post is not about setting up a government bureau to say what is and isn't acceptable. That would be impractical and dystopian. What I said that is that malicious, provable lies are not ok and that people defending them as "free speech" are completely wrong, committing fraud is not "free speech", and ensuring that people aren't knowingly lying is not "compelled speech".
CPC clinics fighting to not have to disclose their lack of medical license in an open and clear manner that does not mislead women because doing so would make them appear less legitimate than actual medical centres is not a free speech issue.  
Lying about the state of a pregnancy, the effectiveness of birth control, the options available for a woman and many of the other things that CPC centres lie about but claim as free speech are not free speech, it's disgusting and dangerous behaviour.

----

Freedom of speech should not cover cases where harm comes as a result of the "free speech".  
I do not feel hate speech is protected under free speech, but more importantly, factually incorrect information cannot be protected under free speech, and deliberately spreading misinformation should be punishable proportional to the damage caused.  

A good example is Crisis Pregnancy Centers, which are very often not run by trained, qualified medical professionals, deliberately mislead women about their options, trick women in to being unable to access an abortion, claim to be more qualified than they actually are and much more. As such, women suffer, but they claim this is all ok under freedom of speech, and that imposition of regulations that would mean they would have to disclose the truth that:  

* They are not medical professionals. 
* They do not have any woman's interests at heart. 
* They lie to women about their health in order to prevent women from knowing that they have not carried the foetus long enough for an abortion to be illegal. 
* They disregard medical consensus and facts, and assert that their opinion that abortion is never an option is equally valid to the position of actual medical professionals.   

Their actions have consequences and hurt women. Lying to a pregnant woman about how far along she is just so she doesn't believe she can get an abortion, even if she actually needs one, is dangerous.  
Pretending you are qualified in a profession, let alone one as important as medicine, is dangerous.  

Absolute free speech is dangerous. Claiming to be qualified when you're not, and then hiding behind "free speech" is abhorrent, and should not be allowed. 

Top Comments:
I don't think fraud is protected by free speech.
>factually incorrect information cannot be protected under free speech, and deliberately spreading misinformation should be punishable proportional to the damage caused. 

It is dangerous to let anybody decide "correct" and "incorrect" information.
The reason free speech is all encompassing is that restricting it is a very, *very* slippery slope. For example:

>  factually incorrect information cannot be protected under free speech

So... lying isn't protected? If it sometimes is, what differentiates when it is and isn't?

It's also worth noting that many CPC's *are* staffed by licensed doctors/nurses and they don't necessarily have to lie to make abortion sounds undesirable (even if only 1 person has died as a result of an abortion, they're technically correct when they say it's a possible complication). And intentionally lying to a woman about her fetus's gestational age is reportable to the medical licensing board so there's no need for treating this case specially.
America does not have absolute free speech. There are quite notable exceptions to free speech. To list the main ones.

>Incitement to violence or suicide

>False statements of fact

>Obscenity (this has an incredibly high bar though)

>Child pornography

>Fighting words (also has a high bar)

>Speech owned by others

>Commercial speech (which has less protections than personal speech)

These exceptions exist and all have legal tests to see if applicable in any given case.

>I do not feel hate speech is protected under free speech, but more importantly, factually incorrect information cannot be protected under free speech, and deliberately spreading misinformation should be punishable proportional to the damage caused.

Hate speech is pretty hard to actually deal with under legal standards. In some cases it can fall under incitement exceptions. The KKK has both been prosicuted and protected by this. Its one of the reasons clan rallies have fallen off is because of this standard. The other exception for hate speech is fighting words. These words must "tend to incite an immediate breach of the peace" by provoking a fight, so long as it is a "personally abusive which, when addressed to the ordinary citizen, is, as a matter of common knowledge, inherently likely to provoke a violent reaction". Additionally, such speech must be "directed to the person of the hearer" and is "thus likely to be seen as a 'direct personal insult'". In other words its a high bar for what would be required to incite hate speech exception since harm must be knowingly intended to be invoked for mens rea to be proven.

> As such, women suffer, but they claim this is all ok under freedom of speech, and that imposition of regulations that would mean they would have to disclose the truth that

Fraud is not protected under free speech nor is "False statements of fact" the problem lies in what exactly the details of each case is. If they represent themselves as pregnancy advisors and make no claims of medical expertise than they have not done anything improper. One would actually have to bring each case to bear. Often times if you read the pamphlets or listen to the things these people say they are carefully worded not to violate these exceptions but are careful legitious statements.
>Freedom of speech should not cover cases where harm comes as a result of the "free speech".

This is true in the US too, but the harm must be immediate and caused by the speech itself. Hurt feelings are not considered to constitute any real harm. Getting a crowd riled up against Jews and telling them to beat up that Jew over there is not protected speech. Making a true threat is not protected speech. There must be an otherwise illegal component that constitutes harm to another. 

>but more importantly, factually incorrect information cannot be protected under free speech

While I would love to see gun control groups held accountable for the lies they constantly disseminate, the proper counter to a lie is the truth. 

>A good example is Crisis Pregnancy Centers, which are very often not run by trained, qualified medical professionals, deliberately mislead women about their options, trick women in to being unable to access an abortion, claim to be more qualified than they actually are and much more.

Here speech is used to perpetrate fraud, which is what can be illegal. It's not the speech itself that we prohibit, but the fraud. These are businesses, and as such can be regulated as businesses, so:

>They are not medical professionals: 

Require all such centers to clearly state whether staff are medical professionals. In hospitals, you don't have orderlies pretending to be nurses and doctors, and there's be hell to pay if they did.

>They do not have any woman's interests at heart.

Sorry, can't be controlled under free speech. This is your opinion on their feelings. They believe preventing abortion is in the best interests of the woman. I doubt you'd appreciate it if your opinions could be made illegal. 

>They lie to women about their health in order to prevent women from knowing that they have not carried the foetus long enough for an abortion to be illegal.

Can be controlled through medical practice laws.

>They disregard medical consensus and facts, and assert that their opinion that abortion is never an option is equally valid to the position of actual medical professionals.

One one hand, this is an ethical issue where facts don't reign supreme. Stating any moral issues with abortion should always be legal because it is opinion. But giving a medical opinion regarding abortion can be regarded as practicing medicine without a license. 

Currently there is no real category for these centers. They're not medical, they're not purely there for counseling on abortion. Get them properly categorized and regulate them as any other business, being careful to allow opinion and ethical concerns as free speech while prohibiting fraud (woman doesn't know their true purpose) and practice of medicine without a license. Such a regulatory scheme should withstand a First Amendment challenge. 
Your position is factually incorrect. Life begins at conception, and anyone who tries to promote the mass genocide of the unborn are threats to society who act with utter disregard for the lives of the children and the mental wellbeing of the mother. Therefore, advocating for the murder of the unborn should be punishable by law.

See the problem? Everything I just said is no different from what you said. Your stance on abortion all comes down to when life begins, and nobody on earth, living or dead, knows or has known the answer to that question. So...your solution would be to have government take a side, and then make taking the other side a literal crime. What next? Criminalize conspiracy theories? Imprison people who doubt global warming? Make sharing an anti-vaccine meme a federal offense? Ban Tumblr posts about the dozens of genders they say exist? Where is the line? 

If that line neatly follows along all of your personal beliefs, then you don't believe in freedom. You believe in fascism. It's a dirty word today, but it has a meaning. "You must do and think as I do" is basically that meaning, and if your line of what should be permissible neatly tracks along your ideology, then that means you're a fascist. If you're okay with that, then...alright. Fair enough. If that bothers you, then that should explain why free speech is important. 

Nobody every tried to kill someone for saying something they agreed with. It's only the dissenters, the outcasts, and those who ask questions that get persecuted for what they say. Free speech definitionally includes "hate speech" and all other speech that makes us uncomfortable, because if it didn't, it isn't protecting anything at all.
The issue of not providing proper credentials for the job you are doing is not a matter of free speech at all. It is a crime to claim you are a doctor in a situation where it's relevant if you aren't. I must admit I don't see where free speech comes from in this.
>I do not feel hate speech is protected under free speech, but more importantly, factually incorrect information cannot be protected under free speech, and deliberately spreading misinformation should be punishable proportional to the damage caused.

Who defines factually incorrect? I'm not being glib, but who in government will have the job of a censor?
You used an example that makes you a hypocrite. Have you ever actually been to a CPC or did you just watch John Oliver bash them and then read a couple of articles? 

>They are not medical professionals.

Many CPC's have Doctors and nurses on staff. Both of which are medical professionals. 

>They do not have any woman's interests at heart.

[Look into the depression and mental illness rates of women who have had an abortion.](https://healthresearchfunding.org/19-shocking-post-abortion-depression-statistics/) Is abortion in the woman's interest if she will have lasting mental health issues? The leading cause of abortion is inconvenience. Either monetary or career inconvenience. Crisis Pregnancy Centers only encourage you to explore other options because the chances of regret are extremely high.

>They lie to women about their health in order to prevent women from knowing that they have not carried the fetus long enough for an abortion to be illegal.

Yeah, I don't know where you got this information but it is certainly not all CPC's.

>They disregard medical consensus and facts, and assert that their opinion that abortion is never an option is equally valid to the position of actual medical professionals.

Again, I don't know where this came from. Also, I want to see some evidence that "actual medical professionals" prefer abortion to birth. If you are talking about Planned Parenthood, that is absurd. 

Now the main source of hypocrisy here comes from the alternative to Crisis Pregnancy Centers, Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood lied to congress under oath about providing mammograms and many other services that PP does not provide. PP only provides abortions, pregnancy tests, contraception and STI tests. All other services they have claimed to provide are lies. PP claimed that abortions make up 3% of their overall services, [meanwhile their annual report proves that they provide 83 abortions per adoption referral.](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/01/planned-parenthoods-annual-report-disproves-its-own-lies/) So, by your standard of free speech Planned Parenthood should be punished on a national scale, meanwhile only a select number of local CPC's would be punished for lying. 
>CMV: America's obsession with absolute free speech is dangerous

I'd argue that the fact that 40-75% of Americans that don't vote (40% for presidential, 75% at any other time) is ***much*** more of a problem.

In 2016, it was 90 million. In 2008, it was 81 million. 

Illinois has a GOP governor because of it - only 18% turnout. It's how Arnold was elected - 33% turnout as compared to 48%.

It's one thing if you have people spouting off at the lip about every fucking topic, which is what I see, as an educated liberal, from every goddamn conservative outlet.

It's another thing if people aren't standing up for their own goddamn representation.

>A good example is Crisis Pregnancy Centers, 

I see someone watched Last Week Tonight or has heard of Full Frontal or NPR. If you want to talk more, hit me up.