Title: CMV: American “patriots” who sympathize with Putin are not actually patriots

Post:
I don’t think it’s reasonable to say you’re a patriot and that you support western values and then turn around and sympathize/ show support for authoritarian dictator Vladimir Putin. You either are a patriot that supports western values, or you are *not* a patriot and support fascism. Being a patriot means you’re proud of your country and your countries values. In the United States, our values mainly consist of equality, diversity, freedom, democracy, and equal opportunity, just to name a few. 

If you call yourself an american patriot, it means that you are proud of these values that your country holds. If you’re proud of equality, why are you supporting a foreign dictator who doesn’t believe in equality? Members of the LGBTQ community are terribly persecuted in Russia, and the majority of russians support laws discriminating against the gay community. Freedom? If you claim to be an american patriot, you should clearly support freedom. There is alot of censorship in russia and freedom of speech is pretty much non existent there. Putin has his political opponents  jailed, executed or exiled. No fair elections. Doesn’t sound like freedom to me… 

Democracy? I’ve pretty much just explained how there is no democracy in Russia. No fair elections, having political opponents killed or jailed, limited or no free speech, no freedom of expression. If you sympathize with Putin, you don’t believe in any of those things. So you don’t actually care about American values.

Equal opportunity? Simply doesn’t exist in Russia. 

There are so many Americans sympathizing with or even idolizing Putin, and they claim to be American patriots. Most of these people are among the MAGA crowd of course, but not all of them. 

I just don’t understand how someone can stand for both things. CMV 

Top Comments:
>Being a patriot means you’re proud of your country and your countries values. In the United States, our values mainly consist of equality, diversity, freedom, democracy, and equal opportunity, just to name a few.

Being a patriot does mean loving your country, but it's quite an abstract concept. Can you not disagree with some of the laws of the country? Or, if the laws change to something you disagree with, do you stop being a patriot?

If half the population holds one set of values and the other half holds another set, which are the ones representative of the country? What does it mean to be patriotic?

To me, patriotism means love and pride for your country and wanting the very best for it. But what is best for the country, is up for debate and it's clear that most people don't hold the same values.

You mention democracy a lot. But maybe a person believes that a democratic rule of governing is not beneficial for the country(democracy's main critique has always been that the electorate is often not informed or competent enough to vote correctly and wisely) and they are in favor of a different type of system. That person is not unpatriotic, they just believe that= what is best for the country is different then what is present now.
 > If you call yourself an american patriot, it means that you are proud of these values that your country holds.

Exactly - it doesn't mean anything about what you might think about other countries. You can be proud to be an engineer, vow that you'd have never chosen a different path, but also appreciate your neighbor who is a carpenter.

Being proud of the values America is built upon and what it achieved with them doesn't mean you automatically hate anyone who doesn't share these values. I think there are many other problems with sympathizing with Putin, but patriotism has nothing to do with it.
People might appreciate radically different values within the US than you do, what if someone is a US patriot because of its hegemonic status, and they love imperialism, what if someone sees the US as a beacon of western values opposed to "degeneracy", they might think that the US is great but has been befallen by a corrupting influence and that Putin's homophobic regime is the solution.

The Nazis hated every democratic aspect of the Weimar Republic, their ideology was still deeply patriotic, they just focused on a definition of Germany by race or blood or land, rather than a republic and citizen status.
<sigh> It's the same thing every war. If you've ever thought about a past case of melting thousands of babies from the air in a negative light, and wondered how the citizens of the country that did it cheered it on, realise it's always, every time, someone like you saying "if you ever think we shouldn't melt babies it's because you like the latest Hitler and are unpatriotic."

Nobody "sympathies with Putin" over what's been going on for years now. They just don't want more pointless death and destruction. And it's been obvious from the getgo that there was never anything at all to be gained here.  In fact, everything you've said here about Russia has been true about Ukraine.  The only thing you're contributing by your opinion on this matter is the death of hundreds of thousands of Russians and Ukrainians.  And maybe millions more if this escalates any further.
This is giving off the “if you don’t support us invading Iraq, you’re a terrorist sympathizer!” Vibe from the early 2000’s yes Putin is a piece of shit and a madman, but this has nothing to do with being a patriot. I’m just tired of losing friends and family members in another country for another person’s greed.
>Being a patriot means you’re proud of your country and your countries values

I agree with the first half. I don't agree with the second half, because countries do not have values (at least not permanent, stable ones). You can be proud of your country even while disapproving of some or all of the values that are popular in that country at the moment or that its government is currently promoting.

What were German values in 1944? Ethnic purity, Führerprinzip, and aggressive militarism? Could one not be a German patriot while rejecting these?

>our values mainly consist of equality, diversity, freedom, democracy, and equal opportunity, just to name a few

Says who? Funny how many of these words don't appear in the US Constitution or other founding documents. I think the Founding Fathers, many of whom owned slaves, *all* of whom would be considered racist by modern standards, would probably not agree with you on many of these "American" values.

Here's John Jay, for example: "Providence has been pleased to give us this one connected country to one united people -a people descended from the same ancestors, speaking the same language, professing the same religion, attached to the same principles of government, very similar in their manners and customs." Really sounds like a man who values "diversity" to me.

>Equal opportunity? Simply doesn’t exist in Russia.

Not clear to me what this even means. If you mean "people can't rise in their socio-economic standing in Russia," that's objectively wrong. The most obvious example being Putin himself, who from very humble origins (mother a factory worker, father a conscript sailor, older brother died of starvation in the Siege of Leningrad) rose to become the president and a very wealthy man. Arguably, Putin's rags-to-riches story is more dramatic than that of any living American.