Title: CMV: Political ideologies should be treated with the same degree of reverence as religious beliefs.

Post:
(*This might take me a moment to fully flesh out my thoughts, so please bear with me.*)

I'm starting to think there's no practical distinction between a political ideology and a religious one. If that's the case, then I cannot accept a society that allows discrimination of one but not the other.

I suppose this means I need to explain what I mean by "discrimination" . . .

We have the First Amendment which makes it clear that the government cannot make laws which restrict an individual's right to exercise their religious beliefs. In other words, citizens have a constitutional right to be free of government intervention in their religious beliefs. This also extends to our ability to speak our minds and share our thoughts.

In terms of social interactions, however, the Constitution and our laws have no formal restriction on these things. This is due, in no small part, to the idea that in order for a person to be truly free to express themselves, they have to be equally free to choose who to associate with. I see "freedom of speech" and "freedom of association" as being inextricably linked to "freedom of religion."

Granted, yes, there are laws that protect civilians and workers from unfair discrimination. According to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, it's illegal for employers to discriminate against an employee on the basis of race, sexuality, gender, disability status, age, and so on. There are other areas where the law makes discrimination limitations clear, of course, but the point is that there's an argument to be made (and I'm making it) that the ability for *anyone* to discriminate against another should be assessed on the basis of the individual's ability to change themselves. (Immutable qualities should be protected against discrimination.)

*However*, included in the protected categories listed above, we find "religion." The Civil Rights Act protects against discrimination against a person on the basis of their religious beliefs. This seems to fly in the face of my contention that these standards are based around immutable qualities, as it's clearly not possible to change your race or your sexuality, but it's absolutely possible to change your religious beliefs.

From here, my mind wants to answer a question: what's the difference between a political ideology and a religion? Because from what I've seen, *a lot* of people treat their political framework as a sacred belief system: inviolable and unquestionable. And even if a person is willing to question it, they're certainly not willing to do much more than that. (I consider myself to be one of these individuals, although I like to think that I can defend most (if not all) of my political ideology from criticism.)

Look, I get it, it's really hard to get people to change their minds about some things. There are certain beliefs that we hold closer to heart than others, for a variety of reasons, but the point is that there's a social and legal attitude toward religion that places it on the same level as race or gender, *even though* it's obvious that you can change the former but you can't change the latter.

In other words, if we're going to treat religion this way \~ and I'm inclined to agree that we should \~ then I think it's fair for people to claim that their political ideology is a deeply held belief, on the level of being equivalent to a religious belief, and it should be treated as such. This means an employer should be legally barred from favoring or mistreating an employee simply because they're a socialist or a conservative or a Marxist or an anarchist or a libertarian . . . and so on.

I don't *want* this conclusion. I genuinely dislike that I'm coming around to this point of view. Therefore, I'm looking for some help with all of this: what are the practical differences between a political ideology and a religious belief system?

Because without that difference, I think we should treat them the same way. And since we can't accept that a political ideology is *actually* worth protecting in this way \~ given how easy it is for bad actors to abuse these things \~ I think that means we need to remove religion from the list of protected categories.

Change my view.

Top Comments:
/u/DrakBalek (OP) has awarded 3 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/yo0reg/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_political_ideologies_should/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
Freedom of religion isn’t absolute. If your religion says you need to sacrifice orphans or commit tax fraud, you’re out of luck. We also have a separation of church and state that is supposed to prevent our laws being affected by the church. Obviously that isn’t always true in practice and people are trying to inch us closer to theocracy all the time, but that is technically against the constitution.

So basically you’re free to practice whatever religion you want until it starts affecting those that don’t follow that religion. Political ideologies are inherently different in that they by definition are trying to change laws that affect everybody. So if we protect political ideologies, that would mean you can’t fire somebody even if they’re calling for your way of life to be illegal. That is a much greater burden than not firing somebody because they look different than you or pray different than you.

There’s also the matter of political ideologies not being as clearly defined as religions. For the major religions, believers tend to have some core tenets that they have to adhere to. That isn’t true of political ideologies. I can call myself democrat or Republican and still disagree with major portions of their platform. That means that pretty much any set of opinions can be a “political ideology” and it would render this protection meaningless.
One big difference is that religions are prone to having things that can make employment more complicated, at least enough for an employer to use it as an excuse to fire or not hire you.  They are similar to disabilities in this respect, and typically have similar caveats.  For instance if my business is only open on your sabbath day and you won’t work then, I am allowed to not hire you.

Political beliefs don’t tend to have these things as part of their core.  For example, you’re not shunned as a democrat if you aren’t in a union, and it’s not blasphemous to be a vaccinated republican.  If people were getting fired for how they are voting or saying they like a candidate at the water cooler that would be a problem, but that’s not what we are seeing for the most part.

Doing something that makes it impossible to work with my coworkers or see clients will get me fired regardless of my beliefs.  If a Christian tells a customer that they are going to hell because they are a dirty sinner, they’re probably going to get fired.  That action is based on their beliefs, but isn’t required by them, and is wholly inappropriate and detrimental to their work.
I do think you actually made a fairly compelling argument, and I see where you're coming from.

However, 'protected classes' aren't *only* decided by immutable characteristics ('eye color' for instance, isn't a protected class), they're *also* decided by a class's historical discrimination. So certain categories like race, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and **religion** have a long history of being used to structurally discriminate against or disenfranchise certain groups, which is why they usually require 'strict scrutiny' under the law.

Political ideology, on the other hand, doesn't have that same history of systematic discrimination in the United States. I suppose you could technically made an argument for the Red Scare in the 50s, but more broadly, there weren't "No Democrats Need Apply" signs in shop windows, "Republican Only" soda counters, or Whig Party Internment Camps.

So since there is not the same history of extreme discrimination against political classes, they don't require the same level of protection and strict scrutiny under the law as race, gender, and religion.
I think the main reason we protect religion and not personal ideologies is because religion is quite literally life and death to it's believers. You can change political opinions at will, but with a religion, you must adhere to what it says or you're going to hell.
I believe the primary difference between a religious belief and a political belief is this: a religious belief is something you personally live by and believe others ought to live by as well, whereas a political belief is something you believe everyone should be forced to live by under threat of penalty or force. 

You could argue that the line between the two is thin these days, but there is a clear distinction. Not every christian wants to impose their beliefs on others. I know plenty of Christians who would never get an abortion, but they don't want to take that right away from others who don't have the same religious belief.
lets say you tolerate nazis and somehow they took power 

would they discriminate against opposing political parties or tolerate them?
I don't know one of them is causing the pound to rise and people having to suffer power cuts I can ignore religion but not  political ideologies as activity effects people lives that's legit thing to have strong emotions about.

I understand what your trying to say but it feels what really mean is you dislike people being so transparent about what they care/have a strong opinion  about which is fair but I could say the same sports teams fandoms and it would be just as legitimate.
Isn’t that more or less the de facto way things already operate? Like if you fired someone “because they’re liberal/conservative” I’m pretty sure that’d be considered an unjust dismissal already?