Title: CMV: political left could win votes of men back without major sacrifices

Post:
TLDR: what team red is offering to men is in fact populism. In fact both sides of political spectrum are ignoring men and male issues, while team red is *pretending* to care. Team blue is not even pretending. In such a situation it wouldn't be hard to sway at least some men back - those who sit on the fence and are not actively buying conservative narrative. A mere lip-service towards men and their concerns would be enough to counterbalance the equivalent lip-service of the red team.

I red exit-polls and spoke to men who supported GOP candidate. From the exit polls I see that gender divide is not that big but it exists [https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2024-elections/exit-polls](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2024-elections/exit-polls)

A lot of red men claimed that dems are misandrists, but failed to provide examples of Kamala's misandry. In fact Kamala seems pretty moderate. She didn't said anything anti male, but she promised nothing to men with one notable exception: [https://time.com/7171868/kamala-harriss-opportunity-agenda-history/](https://time.com/7171868/kamala-harriss-opportunity-agenda-history/) \- opportunity specifically to black men. 

There were [https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/29/us/politics/kamala-harris-white-dudes.html](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/29/us/politics/kamala-harris-white-dudes.html) white dudes for Harris and similar call for men to support blue candidate, but zero promises for men. Yet again feeding a nauseating narrative that "real men support women" (but never vice versa). Biggest selling point of the blue campaign was body autonomy of women. And push back against growing misogyny. Valid points. But this was intended for women and men willing to protect their women.

But are the red any better than blue? I asked men, what they think Trump did for them and I found just one example. Title IX and due diligence vs simplified approach when handling allegations. Kangaroo courts in colleges and universities are a problem, as they can be biassed against men. Still this is a very niche problem, probably very few men face it.

Blue has no official stance on men's issues and ignore the elephant in the room. In the same time fringe and cringe leftists in the internet spew misandry, downplay and deny men's issues. It happens on Reddit too. In this environment the red can very easily frame the blue as misandrists. Highlight these fringe misandrists (who are typically aligning with progressives). This is very cheap yet effective strategy. But it could be countered.

No need to actually do something and threw women or minorities under the bus. Just change political stance on a few topics:

Officially denounce and distance from the fringe and cringe misandrists. Distance from the binary and one sided concept of privilege-oppression.

At least say something about men's issues that fit well into the blue agenda. Homelessness (3/4 are men). Education outcomes of boys. Draft (here libs are already more pro-men, because conservatives are for male-only draft). Body autonomy for boys - banning infant circumcision). Raising such topics won't throw any women or minorities under the bus. 

It would be much more difficult to portray team blue as antimen if their stance was defined officially and not implied by what some fringe progressives say. Absence of official stance regarding men's issues lets conservative trolls easily define left's agenda using the worst examples of leftists in the internet. It could be countered easily, with very little effort and without throwing anyone under the bus.





Top Comments:
/u/WanabeInflatable (OP) has awarded 1 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/1h09jex/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_political_left_could_win/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
I will challenge this view on the claim of "without major sacrifice".

You note that Dems did make outreach to some men once the polling told them they had a problem. The issue is that there is inertia in politics, cultural mood and memes. The Dems had branded themselves since the late Obama years as the vanguard of progressive cultural issues. And on many issues, probably for good. 

However, as with all movements within weak institutions, the extremes blossom. The "quaint" idea of legal gay marriage from Obama's second presidency turned into far more radical expression in 2020 and onwards. My point here is that there was no single leader who decides, no committee of grey beards who vote on what should be championed. The closest we get are the primary voters, who skew to the extremes for both Dems and GOP.

So when the Harris campaign a few months prior to the election began signalling its changing priorities, any voter can reasonably wonder if that change is genuine, considering the years prior.

My point therefore is that making the kind of change you outline takes far more effort. There is no central committee. Rather, donors, primary voters, interest groups, and left-leaning cultural institutions have to change somewhat for some duration to be credible. Will they? Perhaps, but it wouldn't be without sacrifice. 

None of the above is an argument for or against the change you outline. My only point is that in decentralized or weak institutions, coordinated change is hard, especially when years of growing interest groups have attached to one party over the other. Of course, a major electoral loss tends to be a galvanizing moment for change.
Given that you're talking about the US specifically, I'll keep it specific to there. I think any genuine appeal to men would end up proving to be a great sacrifice for them, and it doesn't really have anything to do with policy.

Due to the way election campaigns in the US work, they're not really won on policy. The candidate who wins is the one who best energised their own base and got them out to vote. For the Democrats, their largest and most reliable group of voters is women. Not even of any certain race, just women full stop. 

To successfully motivate their biggest base, they clearly need to focus heavily on issues that directly impact them. And to really mobilise these voters, they'll campaign on the injustices women face and the threat posed by the opposition. Things like abortion, wage gap, maternity entitlements, medical/hygiene product costs, family law, gendered violence, etc are all constant running themes - as most should be. But at best, they do nothing for men, and at worst, demonise them.

The Dems advertising targeted at men was awful, with "nobody has to know" being a main theme! The best they could offer was the guy who looks at his daughter and "does it for her." A noble gesture, sure, but it's also tells men "yeah sorry pal, we've got nothing for you." The ads where the two wives wink and nod while voting Dem also goes with the "nobody has to know" theme, implying their evil, Republican husbands would beat them if they found out. Just awful messaging.

But back my main point, to successfully win male voters, their efforts would need to outweigh any perceived (rightly or wrongly) anti-male/pro-female platform. This risks alienating or discouraging the least engaged, who really need to be fired up and motivated. And also some of the most staunchly engaged, who would see any inch given as a betrayal and abandonment - as already demonstrated somewhat in the comments. 

They could cut down the rhetoric - which would result in capturing less of the female vote. Or they could push policies that benefited men  - which would then be perceived as anti-women and also capture less of the female vote.

It may be true that a legitimate effort to woo male voters would not necessarily require a great sacrifice in terms of policy or political position. The sacrifice would come in the form of votes they fail to capture from their most dependable base - votes lost, which would far outweigh any votes gained.
Conservatives have one singular and powerful weapon that you can not fight against regardless of any strategy:

*Real men vote republican*

This isn't a flippant or meanspirited take. The strength of the GOP is their constant reinforcement of a masculine outlook and a subsequent attack on the other sides masculinity. 

Unless you can eliminate this ingrained cultural understanding of gender through the prism of politics; then it doesn't matter what you promise them or what your stance is.
You have said what it would take to match Republicans on men's issues, but what would cause men to _prefer_ Democrats? Keep in mind that many voters have reasons they vote for Trump that they aren't telling you because they're socially unacceptable.
>Officially denounce and distance from the fringe and cringe misandrists. Distance from the binary and one sided concept of privilege-oppression

Yeah, i believe that alone would solve the issue. The thing is, from what ive seen, this would require completely changing how the left works. It has no tolerance for diversity of ideas. It is stuck in a virtue signaling purity spiral that denounces anyone that does not keep up with the ideology changes fringe groups dictate

Im a 31 old male from brazil. I was considered left when i as in school. The same positions got me in trouble with the left just a few years after that. Ive never had trouble with the right. Ive seen youtubers from the us describe the same thing

I didnt leave the left, the left left me. And honestly, this side feels much more tolerant, reasonable and welcoming to new ideas
Good luck with that. The left thrives on oppressed/oppressor dynamic. But it can't be based on class since a lot of them are middle to upper middle class college educated. So it has to be about identity politics. Therefore they'll never give up their boogeyman which is the white straight male.  

How can a rich and famous person like Beyoncé endorse Harris and act oppressed? It needs to be about the fact that she's the opposite of white man in sex and race. 

The moment the left became about identity politics instead of class is when they lost it.
I think where your argument here fails is that the argument that the Democrats have ignored our left behind men, isn't against the party itself or the politicians in it, it's the members itself.

In the same way there are not 60+ million racist, trad wife supporting, Maga lovers that vote Republican, the loudest and the ones who get the most attention are the worst people, not the best of the Democratic Party as well.

There's literally a trend on TikTok of women thinking it's cute to be toxic as hell, because #womendoingmenthings. Reddit literally allows subs that are blatant misandry to exist. How long ago was the "I'll choose the bear," trend, 2 months? 

Those are not the reality of the US or either party, but it's the perception given because that's where people get a lot of their information now days.

The problem is, the women on social media who are very blatantly man hating, are Democrats and very quick to tell you they are, so they get associated with the party.
The “left” is openly hostile to men and whoever thinks differently but expect them to vote for them anyway? How does that make sense. The left’s problem is very far from not “catering” to men. They literally proclaim they do not need men, dismiss male issues (or fold them back to the men) and so on. So they had it coming. And they thought non-white men and women were there for them, turns out many don’t want to see this crap forever either. You think the problem is that they “cannot fool them” but the problem is they don’t genuinely care. Maybe if they listened this wouldn’t be an issue at all? Weird
No political party in the world will EVER denounce their more extreme supporters. Why? Because the extremists are also the ones who are are \*guaranteed\* to vote.

For the Democrats to denounce the extreme toxic left would be like the Republicans denouncing the MAGA crowd now - sacrificing their core base of guaranteed voters (however large or small those numbers may be) in the HOPES of a larger return from the center.