Title: Adding Political Ideology as a Protected Class

Post:
As of right now, any company can chose to not to do business with anyone as long as the reason they chose not to do so isn't because of their age, sex, race, national origin, religion or disability status. If a private company chooses not to do business with an individual due to any other reason it isn't a free speech issue. 

Given the recent amount of posts claiming free speech violations for companies refusing to do business with right wing groups, I think it's time we need to discuss adding a person's political beliefs as a protected class. I'm surprised the party of small government would support such a large change to protected classes, but here we are.

Are you supportive of adding political beliefs to the definition of protected classes? Why or why not?

Top Comments:
So if a person was hired by a company and they decided to become a Nazi, and discussed their hatred for Jews and other minorities, you are saying that company should not be able to terminate that individual for their political beliefs?
>As of right now, any company can chose to not to do business with anyone as long as the reason they chose not to do so isn't because of their age, sex, race, national origin, religion or disability status.

At the federal level this is true, but not always locally.  For instance Washington D.C. has a law on the books the prohibits discrimination based on political affiliation.

>Are you supportive of adding political beliefs to the definition of protected classes? Why or why not?

No.  I think people should be free to choose who the associate with.  I want to be able to not do business with ideologies I don't like, such as Nazism or communism.  I also want the government to be able to, in certain cases, discriminate based on political ideology.  For example, I don't think that we should allow people to hold security clearances if they have ever been a member of the Nazi party or communist party.
Honestly we should aim to have as few of these protected classes as we can. It was an absolute necessity to force businesses to serve black people because the real world implications of not doing that was a huge problem. On the other hand, should that wedding baker guy have been forced to bake a cake for that gay couple? Saying this as a gay person, I think 1000% no. The current climate doesn’t necessitate that, and it does sorta trod on others’ rights to make them serve people they don’t want to serve. So I just think it should be only on a genuinely necessary basis, though I understand that’s difficult to adjudicate.

I definitely lean towards not making political orientation a protected class. But as I think it through it definitely makes more sense than making any other group a protected class at this moment I think. For the most part, no one is being denied service by anyone, except the unvaccinated and conservatives. Conservatives don’t have an internet in the same way liberals do. I think it’s a problem but also don’t want the solution to be forcing companies to serve them because that feels like an infringement on their free speech to me.
Ironically this is already the law in California of all places. Under the Democratic-sponsored Unruh Civil Rights Act of 1959, back before the left realized it was going to win the culture war.

Today it's clear that these laws mainly help the right, so the left has soured on them. E.g. Michelle Malkin was recently banned from AirBNB for speaking at a far-right conference and is planning a lawsuit under the Unruh Act.

I support political non-discrimination laws because I'd like to live in a country where voters are willing to openly discuss politics, rather than being spoon-fed their beliefs by media. Anecdotally, people I've met from "authoritarian" countries tell me that they self-censor more in the US than at home, because they're more scared of their universities or employers than of e.g. the Chinese government. Of course the Chinese government may have harsher penalties available, but the range of speech that is severely punishable there is very different (and IMO, narrower).

Oh yeah, also because I'm a conservative and think non-discrimination laws would help conservatives win--or if not win, then at least not get banned from the economy in the process of losing. Liberals switched from supporting these laws to opposing them when this became their partisan advantage. It would be dishonest for either side to claim 100% concern for neutral principles and 0% concern for protecting their supporters.
In a limited way probably.   I'd support it in the sense that I don't think you should fire someone who leaves their politics away from work regardless of what their politics are away from work.

I might also support a limited protection for nonviolent udeologies for people buying products in industries that are particularly split between 2 or 3 companies... think credit cards, or the cell phone market where if three companies blacklist you, you are out of luck.  I'm not sure that giving three companies the capability to say what is vorboten is a good idea.   But that's what we have right now.
I think if religion is a protected class, then political ideology should be, too. Either both, or (as I would prefer) neither. Religion is, fundamentally, no different than political ideology when you come right down to it - both simply ideologies.
This is a bit of a puzzle.  What if you raise your prices by 40,000 % for a protected class, but express a willingness to do business with them  ?

That is apparently permitted under this set of laws.

Not sure how much protection that really provides.

What is needed is a protection so that discriminatory prices are not applied.  

For example, if you have a different price depending on who is trying to buy something.  [ which, already sounds pretty much like the major on line retailers. ]
1. Our constitution, the declaration and the federalist papers all do a great job of laying out why ideology has no place in our politics because our government isn't supposed to have control over social, economic or cultural factors, it's why they never gave feds authority to tax income and why the federal government was always restricted until the likes of Wilson and FDR came along and fd it all up to the point it's seems impossible to ever correct what they did.

Ok beyond that the issue we have isn't caused by a lack of legal protections. Its caused by the likes of Pelosi, Paski, Biden, Fauci and all these government officials who are legally beholden to the 1st amendment actively pressure private companies to censor or outright ban those that hold opposing views on what the government should or even choose to dangerously oppose whatever the narrative in DC is. Heck Paski has even openly said the admin is working directly with these corps to stop "misinformation"...

Actually having those in the government at a minimum follow the constitution like their oath requires would go a long way to stopping this crap. There's also the DeSantis approach of using the government to ensure people aren't being censored for their political beliefs and saying they'd open an investigation into GFM as a result of what they did here since they can't just play around with donated money like they have and if they can't prove the money would've been controlled by 1 of the people they claimed the cops told them broke some law or company rule then oh boy they might find themselves in a lot of hot water. 

Beyond the fact our elected officials need to stop breaking the law by subverting our 1st amendment and those in gov who do respect the 1st A need to get it in their head that the government does actually have the responsibility to protect people who's being denied the ability to equallt enjoy thier rights. 

There's also the elephant in the room called Blackrock and more specifically Larry Fink. He's openly expressed his desire to use Blackrock to try and force companies to follow along with his holier than thou push for some green inclusive global society that has private companies lead societies morality by controlling what the corps are allowing to be expressed, what message they use for advertising (m&m is a great recent example) and only support politicians that will go along with it and even push policies that make his goal easier... Rockefeller and Carnegie also pulled this kinda of shit back in the day which coincidentally was while Wilson was in charge and also ignored the 1st A going as far as to arrest politicians and reporters...and with their mindset of "fixing society" by pushing their of so smart and morally righteous ideals on the nation as a whole they made sure congress outlawed alcohol...which went so well especially after the government started poisoning the legal substitute many had decided to use as a replacement. Our federal government shouldn't even be powerful enough to be used by people like Rockefeller or Fink to force their ideals and moral on all of us but for now I'll take a government that will at least not advocate the censorship.
I am not supportive of this idea. I am personally not publicly vocal about my political views and therefore very unlikely to receive pushback from an employer.      
     
It is my view that the vocal minority are driving a wedge between Americans. Both sides get to sit at home and look at the vocal idiots on both sides and say how terrible they are. People really should be encouraged to shut the fuck up a bit more. Let your vote do the talking.      
      
Quick question… would a democrat be protected from discrimination if they applied to work as a staffer for a republican candidate and vice versa?