Title: Now Hiring!

Post:
I tend to be fairly inactive over the weekend and watching that post, from a previous mod, blow up was a bit painful. That is partially my fault as there was a short period a couple of months ago where I lost faith in the subreddit and started an infection among the other moderators with that idea. That short-lived period is long over, and I think it is high time we got some fresh blood in here. This is still the single best forum for political discussion on the internet and it still needs mods who are excited to encourage its vision.

As such, I have asked all the moderators to reconsider their commitment to the subreddit and step down if they have lost faith in the sub with the hope and standing offer that they will rejoin us when they are refreshed and recharged. I have yet to see how many will take me up on that.

Which brings me to you, the users of r/ModeratePolitics. If you enjoy this subreddit as much as I do and are willing to contribute 10-20 minutes a day ensuring our vision and civil discourse, we would love to hear from you. This is not a massive commitment and it was never intended to be. It is meant to be a part of your typical reddit browsing time with a bit of added responsibility. We have three main requirements. 1) That you fully understand and exemplify our rules, rules explanation wiki, and vision. 2) You use discord to communicate with the other moderators. 3) A commitment to transparency. There are lots of other things we look for like a history on our subreddit, a cleanish record with us, and a relatively civil history on other subreddits. These are not requirements but they are things we take into consideration. We do not weigh your political leanings very heavily at all. We welcome Trump supporters and Progressives alike, and we do, at the same time, try to keep a bit of a balance of view points on the subreddit. We have long since wanted some female moderators, but this demographic is in short supply and none of them seem to want to bear the stench of our discord locker room. We promise to clean it up in there if that makes a difference for you.

We do not have or require any special application. Simply jump on discord to chat with us, send us a modmail or respond below. Basically any way you can get our attention is fine. Most of our decision will be made based on us trolling through your history both inside and outside the subreddit.

Please feel free to ask questions below. I will also include the link to our [New-moderator Onboarding wiki](https://old.reddit.com/r/moderatepolitics/wiki/meta/new_moderator_onboarding) which gives a more comprehensive and up-to-date list of the requirements and processes. Anyone not interested in pursuing a moderator position is also welcome to peruse this to get a feel for how we do things.

Top Comments:
I'd be happy to help out. I can't promise I will be the most active mod (I tend to lurk more than post, but this is the political sub I'm most active on, and I read daily - I'd love to keep this community well oiled), but I'm happy to try. Moderation is not new to me, though it'd be a first on reddit, haha.
I think a fundamental issue here is that the problem isn't rule breaking comments, it's the attitude of commenters. People upvote and downvote based on what they agree with and not based on the quality of the comments. Generally (but with a few exceptions) that aligns with the rest of Reddit's political views. 


This is exacerbated by the whole "opinions do not have to be moderate to belong here as long as those opinions are expressed moderately." You can say whatever aggressively extremist nonsense you want provided you express it in a moderate way. It cultivates the same circle jerk we see on the rest of reddit. Meanwhile, nuanced arguments get heavily downvoted if they go counter to the trend. I've even seen mods ban people for very nuanced comments that were phrased in an edgy way while vitriolic statements go unpunished because they were "expressed moderately".


Trump sucks. We all know this. But that doesn't mean that every single thing he does is wrong. This sub should aim to criticize him when he deserves it (which is a lot of the time) but not do so when he doesn't. Yet despite that, you have to start any comments even slightly defending him with a "fuck Trump" or else you get spam downvoted. Any individual issue related to him becomes so extremely one sided on here regardless of the merits on his side in that one specific issue.



This problem isn't limited to Trump, but it's most obvious when discussing him. The truth is, there's little that can be done about it just by enforcing the rules as written. What's needed is an attitude change on the sub. Enforcing nuance would be an almost impossible task, but it's the only way to help the sub achieve what it is intended to achieve. For all its flaws, the contest mode trial was the first time in a while where you actually saw nuance go unpunished on here. 



I don't know what the solution is. I'd love to do my part to help, but I really don't think that more people enforcing the rules currently on the books will do a ton. At a certain point, there's little that can be done if you're not willing to moderate extremist content itself.
It's kinda funny to see shit like this happen on every single sub on a long enough time scale. Basically, Reddit has gone to shit. The bots and fake accounts and bullshit stirrers are here to stay, it just takes a certain amount of time for these actors to find all the subs.
If you'll have me, I'd love to be put on the list. Been here for years and though I've had my disagreements at times, I think I've largely gotten along well with the community and respected the rules. I've got experience with Discord and Reddit bots I could bring to the table to help build moderation tools. I'd love to try and help keep the spirit of the subreddit strong.
I'm not applying, but I do have some sincere concerns about new mods that I hope you'll listen to, even though I'm relatively new to the sub.

In short, make sure that there's nobody picked solely based on the potential for internal strife or lack thereof.

Disagreement amongst the mod team is integral for moderating a moderate political community, and having that be an open part of the mod team decisionmaking process is doubly important. 

Obviously bringing in some MAGA shit-stirrer or some twitterbrain cancel-clown isn't going to help matters, but people who get into fights sometimes over the internet? Bit more acceptable, IMO, as long as they're willing to address their ideas honestly in public.

However, more and more I see mod communities pick based on already agreeing with their platforms or personalities, rarely picking based on their actual merits. This extends beyond reddit, and I've seen that insular attitude collapse plenty of chatrooms, discords, and subreddits in the past.

Also, please reject spez or the various other "big subreddit people" if he/they apply.
Honestly that other thread showed some evidence of a seriously toxic environment in the mod team. I'm not sure "bringing in fresh blood" is going to be enough to correct it.
Please Please Please do your best job in vetting the new mods. 

Like I mentioned in the other mods post youre talking about, this is the next step to what happened to /r/politics before the 2016 election season. It went very similar to this to: 

1. New, random accounts flooded the board by the thousands

2. They began to post in a very deliberate and inflammatory way 
 so as not to actually contribute but to trick, mislead, and misinform readers. Kafka traps, gish gallop, double-speak, etc. It was horrible. . 

3. Regular posters and mods began to get disillusioned and most mods left. 

4. Almost the entire mod team was replace quickly by accounts <1 yrs old. 

5. After that those same new posters from earlier began all out shit-posting, vote manipulation, bot posting, censorship, flaming, and destroying all substantial content in there. 

6. TODAY: you have the single largest board for political talk with millions of subscribers now entirely devoid of anything minutely near moderate or non-partison. 

Dont let that happen here. Please.

Edit: and /r/news, the exact same