Title: CMV: Social media moderation isn't a form of leftist government censorship.

Post:
To the people who think the left via the government "censors" social media in the United States:

You sound like you're confused about the concept of moderation.  Moderating an online platform is not an assault on free speech.  You want to log on to twitter and see child porn and snuff films all over the place?  Probably not, so there is moderation.  The question is where do you draw the line?

A so-called "free speech absolutist" would have to allow that content on their platform.  Elon isn't a "free speech absolutist" he moderates.  He is also losing money on X because he's not moderating enough to the satisfaction of Corporate America. The interest of Corporate America is making money by not damaging their own brands. Elon wants to allow a bunch of neo-nazi propaganda on his platform? Fair enough, but don't expect to get ad money from that.

Some democrats argue that blatant misinformation that can cost lives is something that can warrant moderation, such as during the height of the Covid Crisis.  You can't shout fire in a crowded theater.  That is certainly a topic of debate.  However, they didn't force Zuckerberg to do anything, to the extent he alleges to have felt pressured seems to be saving face to me, either you make the decisions in your company or you don't. The truth is, if he moderated content less he'd be in the same pickle as Musk: losing advertisers.

So you have the right, which is actively banning books, banning subjects in schools, on a plethora of topics (LGTPQ identity, racism, sexual education) and you have the left, which "pressured", not forced, social media companies to moderate a public-safety issue a few years ago, and you think the left are the censors?

My view is we all have free speech to say what we want, but companies trying to make money don't have to host our views at their expense.  Change my mind.

Top Comments:
It's not a leftist thing, sure, but that's only because America doesn't have any meaningful leftist government entities. There is plenty of evidence that both major political parties petition social media sites to remove certain content. 

That's not capital C Censorship like 1984 "you'll die if you say this," but it's definitely a use of political power to alter discourse -- and that's a value neutral claim by the way; there are probably times when it's a perfectly reasonable thing to do.
Zuckerberg admitted in a letter to Congress that Facebook was pressured by the Democratic Party and did censor Republican content on their platform at the behest of the Biden Administration and the Obama Administrations.  Read the letter.  

Platforms have a responsibility to moderate, but not at the behest of the Government, no matter which side is in charge of said government at the time.
I mean didn't the Twitter files and then Zuckerberg show that the government had pressured then to sensor thinga? They are no longer ger chasing a dollar at that point and they aren't even the ones with the idea of censorship its the government,  I wouldn't say forcing but putting pressure to follow their agenda.
>companies trying to make money don't have to host our views at their expense. Change my mind.

When you're talking about a massive online platform that hosts millions of different idea's and has grown to be a large outlet for many political figures and their flock, you're ought to have some extra responsibilities that correspond with the scale of your platform. One of these responsibilities is not censoring one party over the other.

If i created a private car company, and somehow i've managed to outcompete every other car company, creating a monopoly, should i have the right to dictate whether or not you get to buy a car so you won't lose your job or should i reasonably now have the responsibility to provide as many people as possible with a car?

What about tech companies? What if a phone provider suddenly spikes to have 90% market share, should they get to decide who gets access to their service? Oh by the way, they decide that their phones can only interact with other phones from the same provider. But because you're a conservative (for the sake of the argument) you don't get to benefit from their service.

These are heavily loaded examples, but seeing as political discourse has been a very prevalent factor on platforms like Twitter (X), censorship of any kind that's not supported by the legal definition of free speech is terrible on large platforms that have no comparable alternative.
All legal speech, should be allowed on all platforms at all times. Good, bad, true and false. 

As far as tour claim about CP and snuff fils is BS as well, Elon has stated publicly that he is removing these as they are illegal. He has the policy as stated above, all legal speech stays. 

GOP policy is not to outright ban what you stated it is to restrict it to be only for 18 and over per porn and other sexual content. It's a ban for KIDS to be exposed to sexual content. Read what they are trying to and are banning from schools and ask is this appropriate for kids? Read it to your parents at the dinner table. 

The bottom line is that it is government censorship. Not left, not right, it is governments stating you have to comply with what we want you to see and be able to share. It is overreach and is beyond what they should have any say in. 

Enforce free speech on all platforms and advertisers will have no choice if they want to advertise online. Otherwise the platform is not just a platform, they are a publisher and then be held to that same standard as other publishers.
i'll never understand why people throw around the word "censorship". private property, man. if i say "we don't talk about <blank> in this house", then that's a rule everyone has to follow. otherwise i have every right to demand they leave the premises.

this is what extremists don't get: free speech isn't "free". it comes at a high risk and a high cost. no sane, civilized nation has freedom to the extent of anarchy. because that's the final product of true freedom, right? no control whatsoever, no rules, no boundaries. whoever has the most guns and the biggest gang is the ruling class.

this is why private companies moderate. they want order, not anarchy.

i can't see why so many people struggle with this concept - i really can't. maybe they think they want anarchy, but in my experience, they're probably the ones who'd die within the first 10-20 minutes of a zombie apocalypse or Bird Box.
A free speech absolutist wouldn't allow that content because that content is illegal. The free speech discussion is about not censoring dissenting views but it doesn't cover illegal content. 

Saying the earth is flat is not illegal, it is wrong as a statement but not illegal. As such you shouldn't shut them up.
Whether it's an assault on free speech absolutely depends on where the line is drawn though. If the discussion is moderated, for example, so that any negative opinion posted about the ruling party is a bannable offense (like in China, for example), then such moderation does suppress free speech.

If you want to play a bit with the idea, imagine that Trump wins the election, and the congress passes a law that criticism of Trump would be a criminal offense with the penalty of the business that allows it to happen being forcefully shut down by the government.

In that instant, all companies in the US would moderate all platforms so that no criticism of Trump would be posted there.

Would that not be an assault on free speech?
Not here to exactly change your view, but maybe add to this discourse. There is another super common reason why moderation on these sites occurs, people who work at moderation portions of these sites are very biased.

Look at it logically, there is 0 actual possibility to get some sort of punishment for doing your job wrong or unfair. I think we can see this on Reddit most clearly because people who do this are publicly proud of it.

Its a bit harder to point a finger at people at Twitter, but I am 1000% sure a lot of bans that used to happen before Musk took over were for this reason, which is the same reason now.

This has been happening in the gaming space too, especially with online games where companies hire community managers, from both personal experience and from seeing people complain, most of them are terminally online and straight up crazy.

Add their insecurities and lack of real life human interactions with the ability to power trip and you get unfair censorship.

Reason why so many people on 4chan are racists and nationalists is because thats just what a lot of people are IRL, 4chan just lets them say it, unlike Reddit or Twitter.

Also, I would say censorship is overall bad since in recent times, it has only led to a Streisand effect