Title: CMV: Absolute Free Speech is both stupid and a lie

Post:
A lot of people criticize governments for not allowing absolute free speech (mostly far-right individuals). However, I personally believe that one's freedom ends where it encroaches on the freedoms of others. This is a common proverb in my country. Absolute free speech is paradoxical issue because it would allow speech that advocates for the suppression of speech itself, such as calls for censorship or authoritarian rule. For example, there are people in my country who call for the return of the Ba'ath Party. They certainly shouldn't be allowed to do so, and they aren't. Even though we live in a form of democracy, that doesn't mean far-right parties or remnants of old regimes should have the right to participate in it.

If we compare, the only significant difference between parties like the AfD and the Ba'ath Party is that the Ba'athists were Socialist-ish. Absolute free speech has allowed harm through the spread of misinformation, hate speech, and dangerous ideologies (such as far-right xenophobia and religious fundamentalism), undermining societal cohesion and trust. It also enables incitement to violence and defamation. For instance, the 2021 riots in Iraq (The government was so busy with the political crisis that it allowed the Media to be fully free like before 2011) and the 2024 UK riots (Mostly Musk allowing it on twitter) demonstrated how misinformation can incite unrest. People criticized both governments for acting against those spreading misinformation, claiming it violated free speech. Legal systems, like those in the UK and Iraq, impose limits on speech to prevent harm, such as slander, misinformation, or incitement to violence. Yet some people argue such measures shouldn't be allowed. However, with rights come responsibilities. Speech that incites violence, spreads misinformation or targets groups because of personal dislike contradicts moral obligations to society.

Historically, unrestricted hate speech has contributed to atrocities. During the early years of post-2003 Iraq, the US under Bremer and later through Al Maliki let sectarian TV channels and media outlets to be completely free. Which fueled tensions between Sunni and Shia communities, contributing to the violence that accrued. The same thing happened during the Rwandan Genocide, unchecked radio broadcasts (Mostly by the Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines aka Radio Genocide) incited mass killings and violence.

Elon Musk's management of Twitter serves as another example of the dangers of inconsistent regulation of speech. While Musk advocates for "free speech," his policies have been criticized as selective, targeting specific groups but he does allow for full absolute free speech in non-English-speaking spaces like Arabic Twitter which is so unregulated and with no restrictions that ISIS accounts are everywhere.

And tbh, no society permits absolute free speech. Even in societies like the United States, where free speech is a fundamental right, certain speech, especially in politically sensitive contexts (such as criticism of foreign governments like Israel or criticism of a formerly oppressed group), can face legal restrictions. This reflects the limits on free speech that exist in every society, where speech that undermines national interests or incites unrest can be controlled, even in democracies.

**EDIT: I said absolute Freedom of speech not the Freedom of speech itself**

Top Comments:
And you believe it must stop at the point it encroaches on the freedoms of others. 

So mr dictator What do you say to those who believe in absolute free speech?
The concept of free speech in the US is more so about freedom of opinion. So you can't knowingly defame people, you can't break copyright law by just re-typing up a book, you can't incite violence, etc.

>  certain speech, especially in politically sensitive contexts (such as criticism of foreign governments like Israel criticism of a formerly oppressed group)

This you are allowed to do in the US. People are out there protesting Israel all of the time. You'll even see Nazis marching with swastikas sometimes (very rare). You seem to have a misunderstanding of US law. Maybe you've read stories where people have had their rights violated, but those are illegal exceptions.
Free speech is free from governmental punishment.

The government cannot fine or jail you for things you say (mostly criticism toward the government).

It doesn't mean that other people (who are free) cannot shun you or take their business elsewhere.
Question, where do you draw the line? On what can and cannot be said? 

From what I gather you seem to indicate that you are categorising incitement as “free speech” and it seems this is the aspect you wish to curtail?

Also, you make an unfounded claim that people cannot speak against Israel in America? By your own rules shouldn’t  this last line of yours be limited?
Who decides what is a "dangerous ideology". In the U.S. the Republican Party is considered by many to be dangerous. During the Cold war, it would have been easy to deem communism and socialism as dangerous ideologies.
>I said absolute Freedom of speech not the Freedom of speech itself

This is obfuscation.  What precisely is the difference between "absolute freedom of speech" and freedom of speech?  The only conceivable and honest answer must be that freedom of speech is like absolute freedom of speech, but with various restrictions that make it not exactly free.

I can *say* I'm in favor of freedom of speech, but if I start making exceptions I'm not actually for that.  I'm for permissive controlled speech.

>However, I personally believe that one's freedom ends where it encroaches on the freedoms of others.

This doesn't mean anything.  Two people can claim to agree with it in principle while disagreeing on virtually every practical point based on disparate understandings of legitimate freedom.  For example: you obviously don't regard freedom of expression as fundamental and inherent, but rather contingent.  So you're willing to ban certain speech to protect the freedom to not be exposed to misinformation - I think that's absurd, but we can still both credibly say we believe your initial claim.

>Absolute free speech is paradoxical issue because it would allow speech that advocates for the suppression of speech itself, such as calls for censorship or authoritarian rule.

That isn't really a paradox.  If someone appeals to their right to freedom of speech while calling for suppression of speech, it would be hypocritical.  But there is nothing contradictory, paradoxical or hypocritical about someone advocating for freedom of speech saying "yes, that too."  You're misapplying the paradox of tolerance.

>that doesn't mean far-right parties or remnants of old regimes should have the right to participate in it.

I mean...they will whether you want it or not.  They'll do it under other guises or in extra-political ways; de-Baathification in Iraq proved that when former Baathists caused a bit of a ruckus after being kicked out of Iraq's government and military.

One of the most important benefits of free speech is *clear sight.*  People are allowed to say what they think, and you in turn know what they think and so know what your real political situation actually is.  Without that, you're simply betting that, just because you've excluded them from your field of view, the ideologies you want to ban won't one day grow strong enough that your ban just doesn't work.

Germany has extremely stringent speech laws that were aimed at preventing the existence of a politically ascendant far right.  The AfD nevertheless exists and ascends.  Did the laws work?

>Historically, unrestricted hate speech has contributed to atrocities. During the early years of post-2003 Iraq, the US under Bremer and later through Al Maliki let sectarian TV channels and media outlets to be completely free. Which fueled tensions between Sunni and Shia communities, contributing to the violence that accrued.

Yes, if only there had been more suppression of sectarian media, the conflict between Sunni and Shia in post-Saddam Iraq wouldn't have blown up.

Come on dude.  That's wishful thinking at best.

>Even in societies like the United States, where free speech is a fundamental right, certain speech, especially in politically sensitive contexts (such as criticism of foreign governments like Israel or criticism of a formerly oppressed group), can face legal restrictions.

....what are you talking about?  There is no legal restriction on criticizing Israel or "formerly oppressed" people.  There may be social or professional consequences, but I can say what I want.
There is an opposing view for absolutely everything. 

So ideas have to clash,  it's inevitable.   Unless we all just shut up and say nothing.
Since (as you say) "no society permits absolute free speech", we can safely ignore those who don't get that. "A lot of people" sounds a bit "straw man" to me: people can and do say anything online, but if they examine the question more closely, they might agree with you. 

There have to be some limits on free speech: the arguments are over where those limits are. As Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes put it over a century ago: 

>The most stringent protection of free speech would not protect a man falsely shouting \*fire\* in a theatre and causing a panic... The question in every case is whether the words used are used in such circumstances and are of such a nature as to create a clear and present danger that they will bring about the substantive evils that Congress has a right to prevent.
\>However, I personally believe that one's freedom ends where it encroaches on the freedoms of others.

How would that apply to free speech?
>And tbh, no society permits absolute free speech. Even in societies like the United States, where free speech is a fundamental right, certain speech, especially in politically sensitive contexts (such as criticism of foreign governments like Israel or criticism of a formerly oppressed group), can face legal restrictions.

There are no legal restrictions on criticisms of Israel or criticisms of formerly oppressed groups in the US.  You can start a newspaper tomorrow (or find several today - just read Stormfront) that accuses Israel or Black people or both working together of all sorts of awful and untrue things.

Now, you may find that most employers won't hire you if they know.  But it's perfectly legal in the US.

The limits on inciting unrest in the US apply only to *immediate* lawless action.  You are allowed in the US to advocate killing all the Jews, as long as you aren't talking about doing it "right now".