Title: CMV: The Ontario Courts made the right decision in regards to Jordan Peterson

Post:
So just a note, I am not interested in making any sort of rule violation against rule B of this subreddit, nor am I looking to provoke others into making arguments on this topic.  While Peterson's personal views may be strongly associated with violations to rule B, and those views may have some relevance to this topic, the validity of his views are not relevant and need not be debated.  

For anyone who is unaware, Jordan Peterson was determined by the Ontario College of Psychologists to be in violation of the ethical code of conduct set out by Canadian Psychology Association.  These violations are in relation to statements he's made in public, including social media and public appearences and so, as a consequence, determined he must take coaching on social media communication.  

Jordan Peterson filed for judicial review, and the courts ruled in favour of the OCP, unanimously.  Peterson appealed, and has lost that appeal. 

You can read the initial court conclusions [here](https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/23924637-peterson-v-college-of-psychologists-of-ontario-_-superior-court-of-justice),  as the appeals court gave no reasoning.

There are a lot of people who are viewing this as a violation of his rights to free speech and see it as a specific attack on his views.  Again, ignoring the legitimacy of his views, I think the court decision is absolutely correct, and his "punishment" is beyond fair.  

First off, while Peterson is allowed to hold any view he likes, if he wishes to maintain association with the Ontario College of Psychologists, which is what a license indicates.  If he does not wish to maintain himself to the standards of the OCP, he can become a councellor without a license and practice by his own set of standards.  If he wants to maintain his license, and use it to lend himself credibility, he must live up to the standards set out by the OCP.  

Beyond that, he isn't even being punished for his views, but the manner in which he carries out his message.  The actual code of ethics violation is the very first rule of the Ethical Standards, section 2, as follows:

>Not engage publicly (e.g., in public statements, presentations, research reports, with primary clients or other contacts) in degrading comments about others, including demeaning jokes based on such characteristics as culture, nationality, ethnicity, colour, race, religion, sex, gender, or sexual orientation.

and as the court ruling points out, he has engaged in degredation of specific people on numerous accounts.

These includes jokes around suicide, referring to a city councellor as a “appalling self-righteous moralizing thing”, calling Eliot Page's physicaian a criminal, etc etc.  

Whether or not the underlying opinions Peterson has are valid opinions to hold, these sorts of statements are obviously violations to the code of conduct written above.

The OCP is well within their rights to maintain these standards, and ask anyone practice to hold to them.  

Further, there is a higher level of standard expected of Peterson if he wishes to use his accrediation to give himself credibility.  The court notes that Peterson changed the way in which he used his label, stating in 2020 that he "opted not to advertise his title on his Twitter".  By identifying himself as a "clinical psychologist", which did in 2022 on twitter, he is using his association to the OCP formally, and in doing so, their credibility as an organization is *also* being invoked. 

The courts determined that the OCP has every right to set their own standards and adhere to them.  While asking him to refrain his language could be an infringement on free expression if he were being arrested or fined by the government, this is an example of an organization creating their standards, and resting their association on those standards.  There is no obligation for any organization to maintain associiation and approval, even in a society with free expression.

Top Comments:
/u/joalr0 (OP) has awarded 1 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/199ud40/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_the_ontario_courts_made_the/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
If he ignores all of this and just continues on as he has been, what are the consequences?  Are those consequences enforced by the government?  If so, then this is not a private organization.
Have you looked at the original complaints which started this whole process?

They did not reference the incidents which you brought up.

There are holes all the way through this process.
>First off, while Peterson is allowed to hold any view he likes, if he wishes to maintain association with the Ontario College of Psychologists, which is what a license indicates. If he does not wish to maintain himself to the standards of the OCP, he can become a councellor without a license and practice by his own set of standards. If he wants to maintain his license, and use it to lend himself credibility, he must live up to the standards set out by the OCP. 

The OCP is a government sponsored organization. Section 2 of the Charter of Canada guarantees freedom of thought, belief, and expression. That freedom only applies to the government, though. Private organizations can do what they wish, right? But if an organization is government-sponsored, it is the government. 

>Beyond that, he isn't even being punished for his views, but the manner in which he carries out his message. The actual code of ethics violation is the very first rule of the Ethical Standards, section 2, as follows:

>Not engage publicly (e.g., in public statements, presentations, research reports, with primary clients or other contacts) in degrading comments about others, including demeaning jokes based on such characteristics as culture, nationality, ethnicity, colour, race, religion, sex, gender, or sexual orientation.

These two arguments are mutually exclusive. Either he is being punished for his method and not his views, or he is being punished for espousing "degrading" content. Seeing as it's nit a blanket ban on public statements and the judgement says it's the latter, I'm inclined to agree with their own statements that they are, in fact, punishing him for his views. 

>Whether or not the underlying opinions Peterson has are valid opinions to hold, these sorts of statements are obviously violations to the code of conduct written above.

That code of conduct is a government agent acting in clear violation of Article 2 of the Charter.
Whatever I feel towards Jordan Peterson aside, the OCP isn't happy with Jordan's speech against the government, against legislation, against other politicians. People in charge of the OCP are using their power over the body to silence that speech.. which isn't threatening, harmful, or really even disrespectful. The OCP simply doesn't like it and I would normally defend their right to excommunicate Jordan..

BUT.. The OCP is a regulatory board with GOVERNMENT appointed members and the power to determine who can and cannot practice. So, I would not be so quick to say they are a private / not affiliated with the government that Jordan is criticizing. 

From the OCP website/about us:

* Setting requirements for entry to practice and administering the oral and written registration examinations;
* Registering qualified Psychologists and Psychological Associates;
* Setting and monitoring practice standards and ethical behaviour of the profession;
* Administering the Quality Assurance program and ensuring continued competence of the profession;
* Providing educational materials and information to the public and the profession regarding the practice of psychology;
* Investigating complaints and addressing concerns about the quality of service delivered or the professional conduct of the practitioner.

If you read through that, yes, they have some wiggle room, but the intent is clear.. "to protect the patients interests by monitoring and regulating the practice of psychology." - That's a long ways off from going after a politically outspoken Jordan Peterson. 

To me, this is clear.. the powers that be got together and said, "how can we reign this asshole in?" Someone suggested his employment as cancel culture often does to force people back into the fold. 

Whatever you feel about Jordan, the rights of "independent" boards, you should be weary of organizations colluding to curtail your individual rights.
The OCP has a privileged position in the laws of Ontario (e.g., https://www.canlii.org/en/on/laws/stat/so-1991-c-38/latest/so-1991-c-38.html).  So OCP is acting with the authority of the gov't, and if it sanctions members for their speech, then, in effect, the government sanctioning someone for their speech.

Only if OCP had *zero* preferential treatment or acknowledgement by law, and were *purely* a private association, then would there be no government free speech violation.
I tend to agree with you, but I think it might be worth considering your reaction if it was flipped around.  If a psychiatrist said, "Trump was appalling," would you consider it a violation of the ethical standards and be okay with OCP deciding they need to be retrained/can't talk on social media?  How about if they said the RCMP that beat up people at the pipeline protests were assholes?

Because both of those would be public and degrading comments about others and an organization with a strong lean to the other side of the political spectrum could use the same rationale to silence them.
I love the CMV posts written like dissertations.  It's change *your* mind, not *read my rant about why I'm correct and no smart person would ever argue with me*
Not a fan of JP n don't know the details of the case. However, he is being punished for his views here. The rule states so

>>Not engage publicly (e.g., in public statements, presentations, research reports, with primary clients or other contacts)

If I tell you, you're allowed to hold any view as long as you don't voice it, then that's not really freedom of speech. 

In similar way, the rule states that JP is not allowed to voice certain things. We can argue whether such restrictions are reasonable or not but **these are restrictions on your speech nonetheless** just like how all countries have basic restrictions against giving direct death threats 

>he isn't even being punished for his views, but the manner in which he carries out his message

I'll say your view here is wrong as the rule restricts certain views, not just medium of delivery
The OCP might be a private association but it is my understanding that the state only allows certain positions to held by members of said association. So under that rubric the OCP is better characterized as a quasi-govermental association and then makes the JP free speech argument plausible.