Title: CMV: It should be illegal to drown out another person’s exercise of free speech.

Post:
Using one’s own voice, amplification, or a group effort to deliberately silence (or obfuscate) another’s free expression should be at least a misdemeanor, if not a felony. And it should absolutely be an arrest-able offense.

While Congress is the only body explicitly prohibited from impinging on free speech, per 1A, the Supreme Court has ruled that even some private businesses cannot obstruct individual expression/speech (see: Marsh vs. Alabama). It would be consistent for us to prohibit individuals or groups from stopping or drowning out others’ speech in public spaces. 

And no, I of course reject that “shouting down” another is an exercise of free speech. Not only is it axiomatic that effectively no one wants their speech shouted down, but how is an individual right preserved when it’s at the mercy of others? Can you be forced to quarter a soldier if a mob keeps you from accessing your home? Can you be held in slavery as long as a band of people impede your freedom? Of course not. Blocking the exercise of speech is abhorrent and should come with legal consequences.

Top Comments:
Freedom of speech is not a right to have a platform from which to speak and it is not a right to be heard. It is simply a right to express yourself however you want (obviously within certain perimeters) without being subject to arrest or prosecution.

You do not, however, have a right to be heard. You do not have a right to a platform. You do not have a right to be listened to. And you certainly do not have a right to compel others to shut up so that you may speak.
> Can you be held in slavery as long as a band of people impede your freedom? 

The 13th amendment states that you can be a slave if it is the punishment for a crime. That is exactly what some prisons do.

On the more general topic, no one is owed a platform. If you are in public and there are protesters then they have as much of a right to be there and say what they want as you do.

If we are talking about private property at a speaking event or something, then there are trespassing laws that can deal with the problem. 

I do agree that in cases where there is an event at a public university or something, there needs to be stricter rules surrounding protesters impeding the event from taking place (blocking doors, shouting over presenters). But again, in those cases, a code of conduct for the event followed by removal for trespassing should solve the problem.
Why do you think shouting down isn't free speech? Sure most people do not enjoy being on the recieving end, but do you think was should make thing illegal if most people do not like being on the revieving end of them?
For clarification, if I put on headphones so I don't hear an annoying person's inane conversation, am I obfuscating and/or drowning out their free speech? In other words, is it only a problem for you that I'm preventing others from hearing them or would it be a problem for me to use these methods so that I don't have to hear them?

What then happens if someone is irritating me, and I have no means to avoid their speech? Have I no right or protection against being harassed by speech that upsets me?
> Using one’s own voice, amplification, or a group effort to deliberately silence (or obfuscate) another’s free expression should be at least a misdemeanor, if not a felony. And it should absolutely be an arrest-able offense.

What’s the penalty for arresting people to deliberately silence their free expression?
The US right to free speech is simply the right to be free of government censorship. It exists solely because allowing the government to control speech is very easily exploitable by the government to shut down any opposition to governmental policies or leaders. Basically, it's there to stop the government from doing Russia or China levels of domestic propaganda. There is, therefore, absolutely no reason under that rationale for free speech to mean that someone has the right not to be spoken over or counter-protested against.
>  It would be consistent for us to prohibit individuals or groups from stopping or drowning out others’ speech in public spaces. 

What is a public space though? You probably don't just mean in the streets and in parks etc.?

Can a newspaper, TV/radio stataion or website prevent people from using them to communicate any message they want, whenever they want it?
If free speech applies, then this would pertain to public locations, since free speech does not apply within private settings.

If that's the case then I can impede someone else's speech by simply speaking first and never stopping. If they begin to talk over me then they are illegally impeding my freedom of speech and are guilty of a crime.
Your suggestion leads to bizarre outcomes. 

Do movie theaters have the right to demand, no talking during the movie, or is the theater constitutionally mandated to allow talking during the movie. 

Do concerts have the right to exist? Music can be loud. Music can be loud to the point that two people cannot talk. Do concerts goers have the right to demand the band to be quiet so they can talk??

Does the right to assemble still exist? Fifty people in a room can be noisy. It can often be difficult to hear. Do you have the right to disband the crowd to maintain your conversation? 

These examples are a little silly, but they are meant to illustrate that your proposal leads to bizarre outcomes, which I don't think anyone wants.