Title: CMV: The era of American global leadership has been not only a net positive, but the greatest era in human history for democracy, peace and prosperity, and the US must maintain an active foreign policy to preserve it and continue progress

Post:
Warning: this is nearly 1700 words, but they’re all important to my argument. Please don’t engage me if you’re not at least willing to skim over the post


	1.	Democracy

Democratic forms of government used to be a luxury reserved for mostly Western nations prior to WWII,. However, democratic forms of government are now the majority of world governments thanks to US influence. This is according to academic research done by privately run British newspaper The Economist in the 2020 Democracy Index. This widespread adaptation of democracy is due to nations wishing to copy the United States form of government in order to succeed like the US has. Look into the “Washington Consensus” for more info on this. These nations feel that giving rights to their people and embracing liberalism is the best way to develop. This is why America should remain interventionist, but I will talk about that later.

This spread of democracy is also thanks to American aggressive anti-communist actions during the Cold War which were controversial at the time, but the fruits of their labor are now fully grown. 

Any modern analysis made between rivaling states backed by the US and USSR respectively grants a clear winner. South Korea is a fully developed democratic country whereas the North is a hermit absolute quasi-religious dictatorship which is almost entirely living in desolate pre-industrial conditions outside of the capital. Taiwan is a democracy with freedom of speech and by far the best LGBT rights record in Asia, while China is a state-capitalist oligarchy (slowly turning into an autocracy with the growing power of Xi Jinping) which is not by any means democratic and curtails both freedom of speech and access to information. East Germany’s Stalinist dictatorship collapsed under the weight of its’ own tyranny, and the Federal Republic of Germany has almost entirely embraced the ideals of West Germany. With the fall of the USSR, America has no challenger to global hegemony, and accordingly, the rate of democratization has increased.

America has also done this in a very distinct way which still guarantees independence to the nations of the world. US policy in the Cold War was anti-colonization and puts forth no effort to colonize or “enhance savages” like European powers did before America took up the role of global leader. The US negotiated between the Dutch government and Indonesian resistance movement during the Indonesian revolution against Dutch efforts to regain their colony shortly after WWII, and produced a charter and model for Indonesian independence which the pressured the Netherlands to agree to. The same occurred in Vietnam, where the US refused to intervene on behalf of France’s efforts to regain their colony of French Indochina, but rather only supported the South Vietnamese, who had a desire for an independent sovereign government just as much as the North did, if not more so consider their ties to China.  I would be disingenuous to not mention the right-wing anti-democratic strongmen that America put in power in the nations they de-colonized, but I don’t feel that’s relevant because dictatorship did not permanently stay the form of government in Chile, South Korea, Taiwan etc. whereas it did remain in the communist satellites. Basically, as one example to prove this, Park Chung-hee did not stay in power permanently, and South Korea is now free and prosperous. On the other hand, the dictatorship up north never ended.

	2.	Peace

In addition to the spread of democracy and individual liberty, the era of American dominance has also meant an era of peace never seen before in history. Contrary to￼￼ what many believe, the current era of peace is not because of the advent of nuclear weapons and the consequent threat which they pose, but because of the mechanisms for international diplomacy and problem solving created by the US after WWII. The “Nuclear Peace” theory’s logic would only explain why the nuclear powers, of which there are less than 10 out of the 193 UN recognized member states, have been hesitant to go to war. That has not been the case. Instead, there is widespread peace among the non-nuclear powers as well.

This is because of the United Nations, a landmark creation and watershed moment in diplomatic history masterminded by the US. The United Nations often gets criticized as useless, but that’s because the UN is badly misunderstood. It serves only as a negotiating table, and has done a terrific job of mediating conflict. All the governments of the world now work together to stop wars of aggression, and it overwhelmingly works, as nations are afraid of the global retribution which they would face by launching an aggressive war in most circumstances, just like how Saddam Hussein’s Iraqi Military was obliterated by a global coalition after the UN Security Council unanimously voted to condemn his war of aggression against Kuwait and deem the occupation illegal. There are examples of where this has failed, such as the Russian annexation or Crimea, and of course the US invasion of Iraq which I do not support, but human conflict was never be completely eliminated, but the era of US leadership has reduced it to the lowest rate humanity has ever seen.

	3.	Prosperity

Along with the democracy and peace which the US has brought the world, it has also provided the greatest area of prosperity ever known. According to the World Bank, the rate of extreme poverty globally has declined at what could only be described as an extreme rate under American leadership. 75 percent of the world lived in extreme poverty in 1945, and now that figure stands at 15 percent. 

This decline is due to many factors, and most of them are directly tied to American foreign policy action. For one, the previously noted American opposition to colonialism during the Cold War. The vast majority of wealth inequality in the “Global South”, Africa especially can be argued to be a result of colonialism. The US sought to take the world in a new direction, and this included pressuring their European allies, which at this point served as junior partners to the US in NATO, to release their remaining colonies as independent nations. They feared the growing political dichotomy in the colonized world as being colonialism vs. communism, and offered colonized peoples an option for independence which did not necessitate embracing communism. This de-colonization by America was far more significant than the effort by the USSR simply because the colonial empires of  Western Europe were allies of the US, allowing them to force these countries to de-colonize. There is a direct link between de-colonization and a shrinking wealth inequality, as post-colonial nations are no longer forced to give their resources over to their imperial overlords. 

Another way in which American foreign policy should be credited for this drastic reduction of global extreme poverty is the free trade networks that the US set up. The American world order created a new system of extensive global trade with regulations and charters in place to prevent widespread exploitation. The nations with many highly valuable natural resources but without advanced education, medical or other societal developments can now exchange those resources for that technology and development, as opposed to the older “global market” of colonialism where the nations with more advanced technology used it to simply impose their will upon those without it, and take their resources with no obligation to compensate the people living in those areas. Of course, this explosion still sometimes occurs, but every case of this in the developing world occurs in nations which have not embrace democracy, thus the dictators are free to take bribes in order to have the right to exploit labor and resources. This is why global poverty reduction is limited without global democratization 

Even China, a nation I feel is a menace to the global democratic order as will be explained later, has benefited greatly from the American-established global trade system.  After the death of Mao, the Chinese government largely abandoned communism (at least the economic policies) and embraced the global order of trade and global mutual prosperity. They skyrocketed economically, and have undergone an incredible poverty reduction campaign never seen before in the thousands of years of Chinese history.

Conclusion: Why America must stay interventionist and active in foreign policy.

We’ve now established how American hegemony had created the best times in human history, but much progress much be made. This progress can only occur if the US stays active in foreign affairs. 

As was mentioned earlier and inferred through much of the text, these countries have embraced these systems because America is the most powerful nation in the world, and they wish to copy that themselves. If this is no longer the case, than that will no longer be the case. If China is allowed to surpass the US to became the global leader, then the whole world will suffer greatly. Nations will feel that being more like China is the best way to develop a country. This is already being thought of in some African countries, and it is very dangerous. While China embraces global trade, they are extremely repressive socially. In Chinese elections, political parties other than the officially governing Chinese Communist Party must be approved by the Communist Party in order to run. This completely prevents any meaningful opposition from forming and is inherently anti-democratic. The internet is also completely censored with some of the most advanced software programming ever seen, and the ubiquitous censorship engine is by far the most effort China puts into software engineering. Freedom of speech is also non-existent, as many have been arrested for criticizing the government even mildly, and were told that the Chinese constitution, which guarantees freedom of speech, is not admissible in court. 

With the global pivot towards authoritarianism that would encompass a Chinese hegemony, democracy would fall. While it wouldn’t be realistic to say that the entire world would become authoritarian, as China is not motivated by an ideology of authoritarianism like America is motivated by an ideology of democracy, it would likely be the end of younger democracies nourished by the US which currently have a weak foundation. The West would be democratic and free, while the rest of the world will suffer under tyranny, erasing all the immense progress America has made.

Top Comments:
/u/ChristianMB1 (OP) has awarded 1 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/o0053i/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_the_era_of_american_global/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)


Here is a quick list of some (but not all) examples of democratic elections that the U.S. intervened in, disrupting the democratic process solely to protect U.S. political and economic interests:

 

Italy, 1948 – Funding and support of pro-American Christian Democrats against Socialist Democrats

 

Iran, 1953 – Overthrowing democratically elected Prime Minister Mohammad Mosaddegh in favor of monarchial rule of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, to prevent the nationalization of Iran’s oil industry

 

Guyana, 1953 – Consistent effort to oust democratically elected leftists Cheddi Jagan, despite being successfully elected to his office three consecutive times

 

Guatemala, 1954 – Deposing democratically elected president Jacobo Arbenz and installing military dictatorship led by Carlos Castillo Armas (the first in a series of Guatemalan military authoritarians supported by the U.S.)

 

Indonesia, 1958 – Instigating a violent coup against democratically elected centrist President Sukarno, merely because Sukarno made a diplomatic visits to the USSR and China

 

Congo, 1960 – The country’s first democratically elected Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba was assassinated at the request of Eisenhower due to their plans to nationalize the country’s mineral wealth; the assassination led to the CIA-supported authoritarian rule of Mobutu Sese Seko

 

Brazil, 1961 – Covert CIA support for violent coup against elected President Joao Goulart, due to his opposition against sanctions imposed on Cuba and his general willingness to cooperate with communist leaders in his country; coup led to 15 year military dictatorship

 

Dominican Republic, 1963 – Democratically elected president Juan Bosch was ousted by a military coup and went into exile; when Bosch attempted to return to power via popular revolt, the U.S. intervened on the side of the military dictatorship by sending 23,000 troops

 

Chile, 1964 – U.S. election interference and propaganda against leftist president Salvador Allende and eventually the U.S. supported the military overthrow of Allende; the resulting military dictatorship was one of the most brutal in South America, resulting in thousands of civilian deaths

 

I think you get the idea.  The U.S. has a long history of violating democracy whenever it is politically or economically in their best interests to do so. 

 

 
I agree with some of the theme.  America doesn't get much credit because it's easy to knock us for all our numerous and continuing mistakes.  However:  


>With the global pivot towards authoritarianism that would encompass a Chinese hegemony, democracy would fall. While it wouldn’t be realistic to say that the entire world would become authoritarian, as China is not motivated by an ideology of authoritarianism like America is motivated by an ideology of democracy, it would likely be the end of younger democracies nourished by the US which currently have a weak foundation. The West would be democratic and free, while the rest of the world will suffer under tyranny, erasing all the immense progress America has made.

Why do we get let off the hook here?  As if we're not moving towards authoritarianism.  We have several states in this country right now passing laws giving state legislatures the ability to overturn the will of the people.  We have a party that represents nearly half our government still beholden to an autocrat.  So why does America get a pass?  It's not just global, it's local.
> However, democratic forms of government are now the majority of world governments thanks to US influence.

Democratic governments are actually a minority right now. Fully authoritarian regimes actually are the most common form of government in the world today, with at least 57 countries.

> This widespread adaptation of democracy is due to nations wishing to copy the United States form of government in order to succeed like the US has.

Source? That's an exceptionally broad assertion. A lot of countries (especially in South America) had to literally fight against American agents installing dictators in order to achieve democracy. Various examples include but are not limited to: 

1. The installation of Syngman Rhee in South Korea through a rigged election.

2. The overthrow of the democratically elected Iranian Prime Minister Mohammad Mosaddegh to install a King.

3. The CIA's involvement in undermining Italian elections to remove democratically elected communist politicians.

4. The attempted training of Albanian paramilitaries to take over the country.

5. The CIA assisted overthrow of the democratically elected government of Shukri al-Quwatli in Syria by the Syrian Army chief of staff at the time, Husni al-Za'im, so that the US could have a pipeline built.

6. Longstanding support for the dictatorial regime of Anastasio Somoza García in Nicaragua.

7. The CIA's support for dictators, warlords, and drug kingpins in Burma and Laos as a means of financing the Kuomintang with the goal of destabilizing the Chinese Communist Regime.

8. The failed attempt to keep Cuban dictator Fulgencio Batista in power.

9. In a CIA operation code named Operation PBSuccess, the U.S. government executed a coup in Guatemala that was successful in overthrowing the democratically elected government of President Jacobo Árbenz and installed Carlos Castillo Armas as a dictator.

10. The CIA literally tried to poison the elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Congo, Patrice Lumumba, with his toothpaste.

I could continue this list much much longer than it currently is, but I think I've made my point. The United States never cared if a country was democratic or not. They only ever cared if it supported their foreign policy goals. Dictators were far more useful to the United States than democratically elected officials. The reality is that even if we grant you the argument that the world is the most democratic it has ever been, it is that way **in spite** of the enormous efforts undertaken by the USA to prevent the development of new democratic countries.

We can even look at some of your own examples and see how misleading it is to attribute them to the USA's presence as a 'world leader.'

1. South Korea - Originally a dictatorship after WW2 under American supervision until 1987 when pro-democracy protestors overthrew the American supported government. Can't give the USA credit for that like you do.

2. Taiwan - Originally a military dictatorship under Chiang Kai Shek, that brutalized the local population (so, yeah a colonialist history supported by the United States here) which then instituted Martial Law and only had it's first democratic election in 1996 without any kind of apparent US involvement.

3. Germany - This one's extremely complicated because it's very hard to analyze German politics at this time, especially when you have to look at two distinct regions. But, the main point to retain is that German political drive towards democracy had almost nothing to do with a desire to be "like" the USA or be inspired by the USA. German political theory at the time was always a push pull between the historically German (not American) views on self-government rooted as far back as the protestant reformation.
Minor points: China was always an autocracy. It just had a suggested transfer of power structure for 30 or so years, enforced I guess by frowns and shame or something, that has since fallen apart but the autocratic part is basically the same.

Peace is also unfairly attributed to the US in this case. Any great power that didn't love democracy could have equally brought peace. There's not much America did uniquely to foster peace. Americans been pretty aggressive even as a superpower. Vietnam war, korean war, middle eastern wars. If history is any indication, China being in the same position, would probably be more peaceful from an international relations standpoint.

&#x200B;

But mainly, just because US hegemony fostered democracy, doesn't mean it should continue to actively maintain that at cost. Most ages of dominance by a world power have a golden age, and a twilight. At some point, it no longer makes sense to maintain that hegemony and there will be a time when the US has to adapt to a world with a new rising power, and continue to foster democracy without trying to force itself as the hegemon. Doing so, in a situation where there is a rival power of equal strength, would in fact harm peace and prosperity.
I'm curious, in regards to US being a protector of democracy, what do you think about America's well-noted involvements in destabilizing established democracies such as the banana republics, Afghanistan, Iraq or its continuing vetoing in support for Israel?

Likewise, if US was largely responsible for world peace then why has it been [at war for 225 years out of the 243 years it has existed](https://www.thenews.com.pk/print/595752-the-us-has-been-at-war-225-out-of-243-years-since-1776) and continues to be so? (as of today, 2021)
>would be disingenuous to not mention the right-wing anti-democraticstrongmen that America put in power in the nations they de-colonized,but I don’t feel that’s relevant because dictatorship did notpermanently stay the form of government in Chile, South Korea, Taiwanetc. whereas it did remain in the communist satellites.

And this is because, or in spite of American influence and policies? Why would you cut the US slack for installing right-wing, authoritarian dictators all over the world, \*especially\* in Latin America? Do you think the thousands of deaths, disappearances, rape, torture, etc and the devastation / stagnation of an entire continent is justified just because they are now sort-of ok and sort-of democratic?

Let's go through a list of US regime-change and backing or outright installing right-wing dictatorships in Latin America, shall we?

1. Argentina - installation of military dictator Rafael Videla (76)
2. Bolivia - installation of military dictator Hugo Banzer (71)
3. Operation Condor (76) - CIA backed and run campaign of state terror, repression, and assassination of political opponents all over the world, especially those of South American dictatorships installed by the US.
4. Chile - 1973 coup d'etat, installation of military dictator Augusto Pinochet
5. Costa Rica - CIA backing of Costa Rican civil war
6. Cuba - support of dictator Fulgencio Batista
7. El Salvador - massacres of workers and protesters to preserve US interests and those of its corporations (United Fruit)
8. Guatemala - repression of workers and peasants (United Fruit), US-backed coup d'etat (54), 40 years of civil war
9. Nicaragua - Banana wars, support of dictator Anastasio Somoza, Iran-Contra affair and support of the Contras against the Sandinistas.
10. Panama - Assasination of Torrijos, support of dictator Manuel Noriega to preserve US interests, US invasion of Panama.
11. Paraguay - various US-supported dictators and coup d'etats.
12. Uruguay - Support of coup d'etat and military dictator Juan Maria Bordaberry (73)

There almost \*isn't\* a Central or South American country where the US did not intervene to back repressive, anti-democratic efforts. 

I think it is absurd and insanely revisionist history to assert the "spread of democracy" in Latin America is thanks to the US. If anything, it is in spite of the US, or at the very least, it only happened when it was convenient and under the terms that were convenient to the US and US interests.

More broadly: to this day, the US supports democracy when it suits them and their interests, and supports dictatorship and genocide when it suits them and their interests. There are indeed things to praise about American foreign policy, and I am not saying China or Russia would be better. But, especially in Latin America and the Middle East, you can't honestly say the US spread democracy throughout the XX century.
I take big issue with the whole Peace part, especially with trying to excuse the UNs useless nature.

How about we look at the current Isreal/Palestine conflict that USA is actively contributing to? Very peaceful. Also depends on the time frame you are looking at, while the 90's might have been a wonderful time in the USA, some parts of the world were facing hell because of the USA.

To this day the USA messes with countries, throwing them into internal conflicts or worse if its in the governments interest.

There are no negotiations there especially on security matters since the big five can veto whatever they want. Even when they try and do some peacekeeping and help civilians they fail miserably.