Title: CMV: Censorship of chaste gay content in kids shows and banning first term abortion is a violation of the First Amendment and separation of Church and State

Post:
What reason could one object to either of these if not purely on religious grounds? Disney movies with gay characters or queer couples aren’t any more “inappropriate” or less child-friendly than straight characters and couples just so long as both don’t go beyond kissing. First-term abortion is objectively *not* murder because the fetus at that point in time is scientifically not alive by *any* definition of the term seeing as how it’s not a fully formed organism and doesn’t even have half of it’s organs yet - it’s less alive than even an amoeba cell and surely no one sane would object to the “murder” of that would they?

The “Don’t Say Gay” bill and the overturning of Roe vs Wade aren’t based on any factual or universal scientific evidence, it’s not any more damaging to little kids to expose them to chaste LGBT content than to straight content, there is literally no meaningful difference between the two if we define “inappropriate for younger audiences” to mean sexually explicit or suggestive content and/or graphic violence. A fetus is not scientifically alive until it’s a fully formed organism with all it’s organs intact and that only happens at the 5 or 6 month mark, therefore conservatives attempts at pushing the censorship of queer kids romance and outlawing of abortion altogether on the general public is not founded on the universal values of not exposing kids to inappropriate content they can’t handle or being against murder, but their own *religious* beliefs on what constitutes “inappropriate subject matters” or “murder.” It is attempting to push their religion on the general American public and that’s not okay because it’s in direct violation of the First Amendment.

We already have objective criteria in place based on science for what constitutes as “not suitable for general audiences” and “the definition of a living human being/murder,” once you go beyond that and try to change those standards you’re entering into religious territory and the First Amendment is freedom for religion *and* from religion. You can believe whatever you want to believe regarding the “wrongness” of homosexuality and how it shouldn’t be taught to children or that life starts at conception in the privacy of your own home, what you have no right to is *enforcing* those beliefs onto the general public.

Top Comments:
/u/tsundereshipper (OP) has awarded 17 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/18et5lr/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_censorship_of_chaste_gay/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
I want to point out, the first amendment is specifically a limitation on what the government can do. The government, to my knowledge, has done nothing to Disney to prevent it from releasing chaste gay content in their kid shows.

The Don't Say Gay bill is about something else entirely.
you are drawing a completely  arbitrary line where values you don't agree with are religion and values you agree with are not religion.  In practice lots of people do happen to have religion reasons for these argument but your position that they are innately anymore religious than your own makes no sense.

Religion means appealing to the supernatural the way you are using it here is *values I don't like or am not aware of the foundation of I assume are based on bad logic and I call that bad logic "religion".*
>First-term abortion is objectively not murder because the fetus at that point in time is scientifically not alive by any definition of the term seeing as how it’s not a fully formed organism

alive - (of a person, animal, or plant) living, not dead.
"hopes of finding anyone still alive were fading"

life - the condition that distinguishes animals and plants from inorganic matter, including the capacity for growth, reproduction, functional activity, and continual change preceding death.

A tree is life.  A sapling is life.  If you take a seed, and put it into the ground, and it sprouts, even if the starter leaf has not broken the soil surface, it is unambiguously alive.  It is growing.  

> A fetus is not scientifically alive until...
Abortion kills a human life.  That is a biological fact, not a theological tenet.

The First Amendment specifically prohibits the government from punishing you for your views.  Any private entity that decides to stay away from topic X because they do not want to make their fanbase angry is not covered by the First Amendment.
Let me just interject on abortion.

A fetus is alive. To say it's "as alive as an amoeba" is beside the point, an amoeba is alive. But an amoeba is not human, a fetus is.

I'm not a hardcore anti-abortion person, particularly first trimester. But I was once, that's how I was raised. And I want you to understand--there is nothing in the Bible that forbids abortion. There is nothing that says life begins at conception. The only objection pro-life people have to abortion is the objection they have to murder.

A hard-line pro-lifer absolutely believes that an unborn baby is fully human from conception. Again, there's no religious reason to believe that (unless they're Catholic), they believe it because they believe it. There are atheist pro-life people, as a matter of fact.

I'm not saying these people should have their way, but I do want you to understand that the core objection to abortion is not fundamentally a religious one.
I don’t believe that *Roe v Wade* was overturned on religious grounds. I don’t believe it was a 1st Amendment issue.
Quite the opposite with the first point and the first amendment. Companies like Disney, for example, censoring their own content is _them_ exercising their first amendment right. Preventing them from governing their own publications would be a violation of the first amendment. It has been found and repeatedly agreed upon that the first amendment protects your ability to say something, but also protects your right to not say something. It protects you from compelled speech. A magazine can choose not to print a letter, a radio show can hang up on a caller, Twitter can ban a user or delete their posts, and Disney can censor their own content.

>First-term abortion is objectively not murder because the fetus at that point in time is scientifically not alive by any definition of the term seeing as how it’s not a fully formed organism and doesn’t even have half of it’s organs yet - it’s less alive than even an amoeba cell and surely no one sane would object to the “murder” of that would they?

A first term foetus is inarguably alive... This isn't something that the pro choice and pro life crowd even debate. What they debate are "is it a _person?"_ and "does that matter?". And personhood is not scientifically divined, it's more philosophical. Pro choicers aren't saying it's not alive, they're saying that it being alive doesn't make it a person (or it being a person doesn't mean that we can't eliminate it when its survival is dependent on another person).

>We already have objective criteria in place based on science for what constitutes as “not suitable for general audiences” and “the definition of a living organism/murder,” once you go beyond that and try to change those standards you’re entering into religious territory and the First Amendment is freedom for religion and from religion.

And the moment the US government stops you from creating a gay show on your own network, you'll have a leg to stand on. But so long as you're getting others to publish the words you want them to (by writing to a magazine, calling in to a radio show, writing something to Twitter to post or writing a show for Disney to air), they have full right of refusal, as per the first amendment's protections from compelled speech.
Scientifically not alive? Are you then saying it's dead? because that's obviously wrong. Are you saying it's inanimate? Clearly that couldn't be possible either. So that only leaves one option left..  


As for showing gay characters, I would argue that the nuclear family presents the best values for future generations. If we want kids to grow up and start their own family with children, suggesting gay characters takes away from that.
> What reason could one object to either of these if not purely on religious grounds?

Non-religious people can still find homesexuality "icky" and not want their kids exposed to it for that reason.  It's no better than objecting for religious reasons, but you don't need religion to tell you to be a bigot.  Some people figure it out all on their own.

Non-religious people can think that a fetus is a human life worthy of legal protection.  They don't need religion to tell them it is human life worthy of protection.
There are plenty of secular reasons that people oppose abortion and secular organizations that are prolife. It’s not an inherently religious stance, and it doesn’t violate other people’s religious freedom.