Title: CMV: -The purpose of free speech is to allow the stupid, the vile and the dangerous to freely self identify so that we can avoid and shun them. Anything that suppresses that very public self identification process only drives such speech underground where it is harder to guard against.

Post:
Lets face facts- Alex Jones is an occasionally entertaining idiot. I am convinced that a significant fraction of his fan base follows him for  purely entertainment purposes. But banning him from social media  platforms has only made him front page news and significantly increased  his  news letter subscriptions. His jackassery is still available on the  internet. He has in no way "gone away" by de-platforming him. 

Suppressing - by deplatforming or shadowbanning or banning- free speech only drives it underground where it cannot be monitored -is counterproductive. I have no problem with mockery or downvoting a submission or comment to the very bottom of a conversation (there are subs where my opinion is un-welcome and no useful conversation comes from it but I simply stop wasting my time there).  

When power- whether it be government power or corporate power or community power- is exercised to exclude someone, anyone from a conversation, the opportunity to persuade, to convince, to educate is not just lost but deliberately thrown away. 

Top Comments:
>Suppressing - by deplatforming or shadowbanning or banning- free speech only drives it underground where it cannot be monitored -is counterproductive.

Is monitoring speech which you find troublesome better?  The point of free speech isn't there because we know people with different ideas will out themselves and we can shame them.  If that were the case, wouldn't people with hateful ideologies just take their ideas underground anyways?

Free speech is designed to protect your ideas from government oppression.  The problem we have today is a free speech issue not related to the government.  It has to do with a businesses tolerance of free speech in an era where a previously unknown employee can be put on blast around the world for any opinion he might hold.  Before this point the people who suppressed speech were governments.  With the ability to let the world know your opinion on the internet free speech has become something of concern for private companies.  In either case, free speech isn't there so we can trick people into exposing there true racist intentions, but to protect their ability to speak freely and contribute more to public discourse.  We decided as a society that this public discourse was more beneficial to society than the lack of open discourse brought about by suppressed speech.
I think your position is a bit contradictory. As you correctly point out, de-platforming Alec Jones did very little to censor him. He is still welcome to publish his views through the means available to him. Yet you also asset that de-platforming is a form of free-speech suppression. So which is it? Has it suppressed him or not?

While you speak in terms of suppression I think it's equally useful to think in terms of *amplification*. The platforms which deplatformed Alex Jones did so not because they wanted to suppress him but because they were uncomfortable with their platform being used to amplify some of his messages. (And replace "uncomfortable" with "had a strong economic incentive re: advertisers" if you're feeling cynical.) 

Your thesis that the purpose of free speech is to help identify the worst voices is a bit strange, because if it were true we should amplify the worst voices the most, which would be very strange. And people would really hate it. 

The purpose of free speech is to facilitate and protect free expression, and nothing else. Alex Jones hasn't lost his right to free speech. 
Except we have historical examples where this was not the case. I'd say that the Nazis ideology was pretty stupid, vile, and dangerous, and it spread just fine while being broadcasted all over the country. 

For a less extreme example, a big reason why so many people in the US don't believe in climate change is due to the practice of giving equal time to opposing viewpoints on the news, even when one side is empirically wrong. When people kept hearing an equal number of people on the tube on either side of the issue, it created the perception that there was a sizable part of the scientific community which disagreed that climate change, which isn't true at all. 

Or again with the news, it's well established that when a high profile suicide or mass murder is plastered over the headlines we can expect to see copycats soon after. People can end up dead because some hateful or ignorant ideology (think Roger Eliot) is given so much attention. 

There IS danger in promoting some ideas. I'm not arguing that this means that speech needs to be restricted, just that bringing bad ideas out into the light doesn't always make them go away. 
You seem to have two seperate arguments here. Your first is about alex jones, and how driving him out of mainstream platforms only helps him as it gives him free publicity. I would say this is untrue as now people can’t stumble into his content or have it recommended for then nearly as easily once the controversy dies down a little. 

As for your argument about free speech, while t would be wrong for the government to censor people, companies censoring what is on their platforms is not. As long as a company is honest about what they moderate, them moderating their own platforms however they see fit should be perfectly allowed. If the government stepped in and forced the company to not moderate at all, the company would quickly be overrun with trolls, porn, and other undesirable content. If the government draws the moderation line somewhere else, then it is very easy for this to infringe upon people’s free speech by the government favoring one group’s speech over another’s.
You are completely and utterly wrong. 

The purpose of free speech laws is to limit the power of the governing heirarchy to protect itself when it becomes corrupt or tyrannical. It has nothing at all to do with identifying stupid people.

Censoring Alex Jones is simply another step on a slippery slope to making the principle of free speech obselete.

The idea that this is going to make Alex Jones more popular is ridiculous. He's effectively been barred from the mainstream discourse. And everyone's cheering because they hate Alex Jones for whatever reason. How else was this principle going to get abrogated? Did you think it was going to start with some super hip popularity contest winner? Of course not. Everyone is has to be applauding when their freedoms are initially taken away, then when it comes time to do something really distasteful people won't even feel entitled to those freedoms because they're so used to them being set aside for convenience sake. 

Free speech isn't anything to do with seeing stupid people, it's about limiting the scope of activity of our elites because that is what the fundamental success and prosperity of liberal western democracies is built on. But who cares, fuck Alex Jones right, at least we can feel good about that.
Your entire premise is based upon the idea that engaging people with these views will cause them to change their mind.     
Meanwhile, all these people want isn't to discuss something in good fath with you, they merely want to engage you as it gives their ideas a platform.   

Look at any climate change debate. It's always 1 'believer' of climate change and 1 climate change skeptic. The division is presented as 50/50 while it's more like 97/3 yet we don't see that spread as we're so focused on giving everyone a voice in the debate. This has so far lead to more and more people no longer believing climate change to be real.   

Allowing a platform and engaging people like Alex Jones only works if these people are willing to change their mind when presented with facts. If not, they're just using whatever platform you offer them to try and indoctrinate even more people into their bullshit narrative.   
The purpose of free speech is to protect citizens from government harassment and penalty for things that they say, and even then there are exceptions such as libel, slander, threats, et cetera.  The spirit of free speech is such that if you allow for people to share their ideas, they cannot be forcefully threatened as only the government has a right to do that.

That's it.  The point isn't to allow for stupid things to be said.  Rather, it makes peace with this likelihood because surviving "stupid things" is still worth it if good ideas can shine through in the end.

As everyone's probably already pointed out: unless the government is doing it, free speech has not been violated.  The spirit, maybe, but the spirit isn't tangible and it's up for debate.
I disagree with the first part. The purpose of free speech is to prevent overbearing government from
censoring the people, which is always one of the essential steps of fascism.
It's probably beside the point, but I'd mostly want to change your view about that first sentence. There is so much more to free speech, and it's so vitally important both for individual liberty and the process of forming ideals and finding the right answers at the right time for a society at large that describing it as a "self-identifying-mechanism" for "the stupid" really doesn't do it justice.
You are right that we have a responsibility to promote debate, curiosity, and awareness, but what if the content that Jones puts forward is everything but that? His site and content are the definition of fake news, spouting lies about Sandy Hook Crisis actors and other politics to the point of fabrication and conspiracy that misleads the public. He and his readership do not respond to opposition with open minds but instead with closed ears, selecting certain truths when are useful and fabricating stories to strengthen preconceived ideas. They are your overly political uncle at the thanksgiving dinner table; whatever you say, they yell over you and leave unconvinced regardless of what contradicting arguments are brought to their attention. Your concerns over companies censoring our news are correct, but in a sense, companies have always censored our news, and this is a good thing. In a pre-internet world, editors and journalists dedicated to accuracy acted as gatekeepers to their readership.  Stores and newspapers stands would only stock the most mainstream newpapers, sidelining radical publications to certain niches. In a time when many receive their news from their twitter and Facebook feeds, shouldn't social media companies have a responsibility to promote wholesome debate without hate speech, trolling, and blatant inaccuracies?