Title: CMV: Free speech is good and should generally remain with very few limits

Post:
Context: I am a trans woman and it is theoretically in my best interest to restrict the speech of those spreading hateful rhetoric. That is why I want my view changed.

I am first going to differentiate between de-platforming and silencing. In the United States, we have strong free speech protections. I do believe in Freedom of association and right to property so I don't think any given company should be forced to allow someone to use their platform. Free speech permits those wishing to behave intolerantly to demonstrate themselves as someone negative to associate with. I do not believe the government has any place regulating hateful speech. Furthermore, places that permit a wide range of views with very low moderation should not be demonized. I also believe freedom of speech regulations could be turned against minorities as seen in Florida. It's a dangerous thing to regulate what people can say.

&#x200B;

Edit: View reversal

&#x200B;

Top Comments:
/u/TheCaffinatedAdmin (OP) has awarded 1 delta(s) in this post.

All comments that earned deltas (from OP or other users) are listed [here](/r/DeltaLog/comments/13pxhbo/deltas_awarded_in_cmv_free_speech_is_good_and/), in /r/DeltaLog.

Please note that a change of view doesn't necessarily mean a reversal, or that the conversation has ended.

^[Delta System Explained](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltasystem) ^| ^[Deltaboards](https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/wiki/deltaboards)
Places that permit a wide range of view with low moderation demonize themselves. First, untoxic people with low toxicity tolerance leave them, because of all the toxicity. The average toxicity level rises, so you have a new round of leavers. Iterate for a while and you end up with a massive concentration of toxic users that no decent person wants to get near to.
What would you consider to be very few limits For example, are direct threats of violence acceptable? Is revealing someone's private information acceptable? Or are you mainly just focusing on hate speech? I just want to get a feel for how you are looking at this issue in a little more depth, because there is a lot of nuance in this debate.
 “Michel Rosenfeld, in the Harvard Law Review in 1987, stated: "it seems contradictory to extend freedom of speech to extremists who ... if successful, ruthlessly suppress the speech of those with whom they disagree." Rosenfeld points out that Western European democracies and the US have opposite approaches to the question of tolerance of hate speech, in that where most Western European nations place legal penalties on the circulation of extremely intolerant or fringe political materials (e.g. Holocaust denial) as being inherently socially disruptive or inciting of violence, the US has ruled that such materials are in and of themselves protected by the principle of freedom of speech and thus immune to restriction, except when calls to violence or other illegal activities are explicitly and directly made.” 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradox_of_tolerance#:~:text=The%20paradox%20of%20tolerance%20states,or%20destroyed%20by%20the%20intolerant. 

It depends on the limits you think should be set but it is my view that freedom of speech should not be an absolute right..and not just to censor violence but also to censor hate or fascists that if they had their way would censor everyone else.
>Furthermore, places that permit a wide range of views with very low moderation should not be demonized.

You let one Nazi hang out at the bar, pretty soon it's the Nazi bar.  

See, the average, rational, non-fucked in the head person don't want to be around that sort of human trash.  They don't want to hear idiots talking about "gassing the Jews" and have to figure out if it's a joke or not.  In fact they don't want to hang around with people who think the holocaust is a joke.  They don't want to have a conversation in an environment where "horse dick guy" shows up and posts a horse dick after every comment.  They don't want to watch wannabe murderers have a race to the bottom celebrating how many people they'll kill.

So yeah, the Nazi bar should be demonized.  It's full of fucking Nazis.  And the places on the internet that allow horse dick guy to do his thing are unpleasant places for people to be.

I was 13 once, I understand being 13, but other people should not be sentenced to be around 13 year olds, nevermind 30 year olds who act like they're 13.  

Furthermore, you have to understand - whatever your philosophy says, the fact is that allowing this sort of talk in an environment acts to radicalize people.  If Reddit allows Nazis, soon Nazi ideas will spread.  Non-Nazis will start to pick up their talking points. The reason they put so much work into infiltrating these spaces is for the simple, basic fact - **it works**.
The general issue with the demonetization side is that it is dependent on advertisers. Basically it's the advertisers being concerned about their product being placed before potentially objectionable content. This wasn't a huge deal in the past, if a complaint was issued, they would address it. But as these companies have gotten larger and larger. Then, individual addressing of content just became completely infeasible. Thus just demonetizing via bots.

After things got more flammable in the previous 6 ish years the companies have been getting jumpy. Since they get blasted by advertisers and lose total revenue (thus also hurting revenue sharing) in our modern day over any little controversy. Meaning they have to be ever more on the ball, and extreme in their reactions.

While I agree with the sentiment that if you see a bounty ad before a Andrew Tate video, no one assumes the fucking paper towel company endorses Andrew Tate. But it spooks them. And so they complain, and companies like YouTube become even jumpier.
Is there anyone who doesn't believe in this basic point? Free speech should remain, and so far in the US, it has. People don't get sent to jail for speaking their opinion. They might lose their jobs for being openly bigoted, or get kicked off of social media sites, but freedom of speech only protects from legal repercussions. Private companies have every right to ban people from their platforms, or fire employees who don't align with their public views.

There's also a difference between "free speech" and "harassment". As an example, saying generally that you don't believe trans women are women is bigoted, but this falls under free speech and can't/shouldn't be grounds for legal retaliation. On the other hand, singling out a trans woman and telling her that she's not a woman toes the line of harassment, and I'd only give someone one warning to stop talking to me and leave me alone before I'd treat it as such.
There’s either free speech or there isn’t. There can’t be an in between. So you’re either for free speech with all the good and bad, or you’re not. That’s how I tend to frame it.
So with regards to the status quo in the US, would you say we should stay the same, or do something different? And if so, what?
>I do not believe the government has any place regulating hateful speech. Furthermore, places that permit a wide range of views with very low moderation should not be demonized.

Demonized by who? So long as the demonization is for the *content* and not for the *act of speech*, where's the issue?