Title: How do we cripple yellow journalism without infringing on the 1st amendment

Post:
A minority will deny that corporate media and newspapers have a tendency to sensationalize articles or even outright lie, at the very least in their editorials, if not worse in their reporting. The largest cable networks, Fox, CNN, MSNBC, are all known for it to some extent.

&#x200B;

I will be brutally honest, it's infuriating to see, especially once a lie has been outright found and called out. It is NOT justice that they should lie to such a large amount of the populace, who end up making their minds or changing opinions based on fake information. Let's take the origin of the word "Yellow Journalism" for example. It arose from the Spanish-American war in the late 19th century because the newspapers' sensationalist or even purposefully lying tendencies in order to make sales led in-large part to the war, among other factors. The sinking incident they reported on was found to be some sort of accident, but the damage was already done.

&#x200B;

We see this effect in many things today, and some lead to real world consequences that are no good. In order for this to change, however, the first amendment would somehow need to be preserved. Luckily, and be honest, we already twist the constitution through judicial decree to fit whatever the majority party in the US wants at the time. For example, while hate speech is protected, something like "we should be killing these Muslims not bringing them over" can legally get you in trouble if a case can be made that your statement, in context, would mobilize someone towards violence, including yourself. This is clearly an infringement of "free" speech, but the honest-to-God reality is that it works to serve the needs of the American people and protect them collectively an chronically than without. It's the famous "yelling fire in a crowded theater" example. Also, it can't be easily manipulated to include specific opinions because it covers what's more of an action than an opinion, which would be what outlawing any sort of actual hate speech (opinion) would do; open up the door for crushing dissent on a certain arbitrary opinion. 

&#x200B;

Likewise, "the freedom of press" will always have to include "allowing press to do X or Y", because as soon as you set something arbitrary to X, it can be substituted with anything else. No, instead we need to find our "fire in a crowded theater" argument for media misinformation or blatant manipulation. What can be done?

Top Comments:
The best way to cripple it? Education, supporting public media and supporting subscription-based journalism . Post-graduates are not the demographic for tabloids. Newspapers who are paid direct from the consumer don't need to rely on "clicks"/advertising. Public Media companies only need to make enough money to pay their staff, not make a profit.
>For example, while hate speech is protected, something like "we should be killing these Muslims not bringing them over" can legally get you in trouble if a case can be made that your statement, in context, would mobilize someone towards violence, including yourself. 

Unless you're standing in front of a bunch of muslims with a bullhorn and shouting to an armed crowd, that's not gonna - and can't - get you in trouble. Because the 1A protects it.
My concern, is that if you open up the libel laws, the rich and powerful will use it them silence smaller media outlets by tying them up with expensive and frivolous lawsuits.

Only the larger media outlets will be able to afford to fend off these sorts of lawsuits. And the larger media outlets are already controlled by the rich and powerful.

Libel lawsuits are already used this way, and making it easier to sue for libel will just increase this sort of abuse. Making litigation easier tends to disproportionately harm smaller businesses and individuals than it does big business.
The short answer is you don't.

Like other commenters have said, we need Media education. We have a problem with people on the left and right buying what the media is selling wholeheartedly without any other thought. None of these sensationalist media corporations are giving straight news, they tell you how to feel rather than deliver a story, and many people don't understand that.

Aside from education I don't think anything really needs to be done. Media distrust is at an all time high and is only increasing. These sensationalist media outlets are hemorrhaging viewers. We live in time where direct access to news is available 24/7 without having a talking head give you their spin on it. Some farmer in the middle of nowhere Wisconsin can turn on his laptop and read direct accounts from protestors in Hong Kong. I don't believe the media as it exists now, can last. It has to drop the constant spinning of stories and telling viewers how to feel, or it will go extinct.

This isn't just America either, politically aligned media outlets around the world are suffering views right now. For example, the BBC is at an all time dislike/distrust high.
Reinstate anti monopoly laws and break up the conglomerates. With major networks, force them to sell off their affiliates to independent, local owners.
As you point out it's a real problem, but also one that's been with us at least as long as we've had mass media.  The only solution to lies is truth.  It's up to each of us to challenge falsehoods where we find them and spread truth to the best of our ability.

No government action is going to solve it, and asking the government to regulate the content of media is asking for a totalitarian nightmare.
Perhaps a type of credibility license based on quantity of proven complaints of incorrect facts/information to be given via yearly review to news sources, kind of like a restaurant food rating? No-one says you can't eat at a restaurant with a very low rating, but it's mandated that its easily visible in their window so that customers are informed as to what they are getting into. It could be boldly displayed as a letter grade or color code next to all posted headlines. A physical assessment of reputation for factuality, a defined rating of which the customer can quickly extrapolate the likely factuality of any given post. Similar also to movie ratings, although mentioning those, I recall how much strain it can place on independent creators. I wonder how this would be applied, considering that posting a comment on events online is much easier than opening a restaurant. Thoughts?
You can't. We've always had it and always will, and that's a good thing. It's better that all ideas be exposed so that people can argue about them.