Title: So as the dust settles, what's the future of the Republican Party? 

Post:
I had posted this a few months ago, worth another look.  

Looking at the Republican Party right now I don’t see how they have much of a future. Their message seems to have been completely co-opted by the extreme conservative fringe, and while that plays well on places like Fox news, it’s never going to win an election. There are just not enough extreme conservatives out there, and more moderate conservatives are being turned away by the direction the party is headed in.

What’s more the candidates that the Republican Party is putting up for major offices seem to be getting forced into going along with this far right movement. The message to Republicans from the far right fringes of their own party now seems to be “you either get with us, placate us, or we’ll trash you”. The left is already going to be trashing any Republican anyway, but now as a candidate you have to face the specter of your own party dumping on you, as Romney did (not that he was a great candidate to begin with). So you get candidates that look uncomfortable and out of place delivering these messages that veer into thinly veiled hate-speech and pseudo-religious reasoning for policy proposals. Which is pretty much the opposite of the direction the majority of this country is going in.

I’m looking at this not as a liberal or conservative, but as a moderate. I lean vaguely conservative fiscally (against the individual mandate in Obamacare, against S.S. being conscripted, but would like college education to be free at all state universities), and lean liberal on ‘moral’ issues (I’m Catholic, but don’t want to force it on anyone. I believe religious ideology should never be used as reasoning for a law/regulation, and I don’t care if gays get married; they have just as much right to be miserable as the rest of us). The irony is that while the GOP was always conservative (obviously), much of their message is so over the top controlling it actually violates the tenets of conservatism. A true conservative is for less government regulation and would be vehemently against regulation of marriage for instance.  I think maybe Libertarian's are the closest we have to a real conservative party at this point; and I don't even feel strongly about that. So you now have a Republican party that sells itself as conservative, but has Neanderthal-era social policies built around the concept of government control over personal liberties. In other words, a complete mess.

As a moderate I did not particularly like Obama during the ’08 campaign. I don’t like him as President (although my disdain for him has declined slightly). Neither party particularly appeals to me, but with a choice between the two parties I’m going to choose the one that is true to their stated philosophy & cause (i.e. the liberal party is actually sticking to liberal values), and is NOT attempting to integrate prejudice into their official platform. I know I’m not alone in this thought, and I predict that the massive body of independents and moderate leaning conservatives will either not vote at all, or vote Democratic. Unfortunately it seems we’re wed to a two party system, and I haven’t heard a peep about the GOP splitting; so a split between the more moderate republicans, and the extreme right seems unlikely, leading me to believe that the party itself will die before attempting to form two viable parties. 

SO what are your thoughts on the future of the GOP, and the potential of its demise (at the very least as a relevant major national political party)?  Do you think they pull their heads out of their asses and adopt an actual small-government / moderate ideology, or do they ride the ship down? 

Top Comments:
Unfortunately, (or, perhaps fortunately) there is a considerable distance of decline that will have to occur (and, will most likely will per OP's points) before major changes in the Republican party go down. 

To answer your question directly, I think this means that most Republican politicians end up going down with the ship and fade into obscurity. 
I forgot the name of the black pizza Republican, but on his radio show he says that now is time to form a third party. 
I can't for the life of me remember his name either, but I know who you mean.  Maybe he should change his official title to black pizza Republican? 

But yeah, I'd agree with him; let the tea party have their own ultra right wing party, and let's get an actual moderate conservative party going. 
I find myself in a strange position, in that I actually have more optimism than most others I meet, concerning the future of this nation. 

I think it has to do a lot with the variety of life experiences coupled with the diversity of those in my family and my circle of friends and associates. 

For instance, most of my family is hard-core evangelicals. And, while many of their political beliefs I disagree with, knowing why they believe what they do (without having to rely on Fox news, etc for informing me why people would vote conservative) is actually comforting. 

Also, I've spent years working in service industry positions and construction work but now am almost a full fledged doctor with a relatively large salary in my future. This allows for perspective and the ability to minimize social xenophobia. 

What I'm really trying to say is that if the GOP as we've come to know it really does fade away, something else will fill the vacuum. I think the emerging demographic changes in the country demand it. 
One would think that after the blow the TEA party received this past election would have forced them to reflect on their political positions, but we all know that that is a pipe dream.
yeah I think either side of the political spectrum, when you get too far out, there's this us vs. them tendency. Basically the opposite of what open political discourse should be about.   I'm thinking they circle the wagons and batten down the hatches and go even deeper into the rabbit hole after this one