Title: What are the implications if US Special Council Mueller is fired?

Post:
Robert Mueller was appointed in 2017 following the firing of FBI Chief James Comey to investigate claims of collusion between the Russian government and the Trump campaign, as well as that of obstruction of Justice. So far, the investigation has indicted 19 individuals, as well as three Russian organizations, and has investigated or interviewed scores more. Over the past few weeks, Trump has condemned the Special Council, including Mueller by name, and has fired a number of staffers known to have advised him against interfering with the investigation. Trump has also been revealed to have wanted to fire Mueller several months ago but had changed his mind. There have also been several rumors that Scott Pruitte, administrator of the EPA, was interested in the job as Attorney General, thus replacing Sessions. Since last year, Sessions has recused himself from the Russian investigation due to questions about a contact he had with a Russian official. If Pruitte was appointed to the office, he would have the authority to end the Special Investigation. 

Leaving aside the actual contents of the investigation, what would be the political and social ramifications if Trump fired Mueller or otherwise interfered with the proceedings? Would this have an impact on the midterms, and would it cause moderate Republicans to turn on Trump?

Top Comments:
There are some implications which are certain:

1. Much of the investigation would immediately become public. Mueller has a lot of documents under seal and the end of the investigation causes those to become public. These documents can’t be suppressed because they are part of the court process for the indictments, warrants, subpoenas, and so on.

2. Everything about the investigation becomes FOIAble. The only thing which keeps journalists out of the Mueller investigation is that it’s ongoing. The moment it isn’t, its defense against FOIA collapses.

3. The grand jury documents will become public. These grand juries were setup in such a way that their proceedings are only secret so long as they continue. Once the investigation closes, it all gets released.

There are implications which are very likely:

1. Leaks will resume. Remember that Comey himself confessed that he leaked to the media so that a special prosecutor would be appointed. He’s almost certainly not the only one and those people have been talking to Mueller rather than the press.

2. Prosecutors in New York will begin going after Trump, family, and associates. Mueller’s indictments are structured to avoid an issue with New York State law dealing with the dual sovereigns doctrine. The reason is almost certainly to make his investigation an adjunct to New York’s prosecutors should it end or its targets be pardoned. Because almost everything about the Trump campaign and much of the administration was done out New York, any criminal activity can be prosecuted either under state or Federal law.

3. Congress will lose its shit. Mueller and the investigation are broadly popular. If Mueller is fired, the outcry will likely be immense and cause especially Senate Republicans to fear for their jobs.
If Trump were to fire Mueller it’s pretty much guaranteed chaos would emerge. Despite their unwillingness to criticize or hold Trump accountable, a majority of Republican leaders have stated Mueller should be allowed to continue, even if they think the investigation in itself is overkill. The democrats would absolutely call it a major conflict of interest and require some serious discussion around impeachment. Moderate Republicans would probably also disagree with the firing and be upset leaving Trump with the support of only his most loyal followers.

Trump firing Mueller would also likely cause international criticism. The news both within and outside the United States would be surreal and I think between the protests, news coverage, and criticism from other countries that most Republican leaders would have no choice but to act.

Another important thing to note is how dirty politics can be. Many of the politicians and people around Trump don’t actually like him. They are there by his side providing support because it benefits them. As soon as those benefits disappear and the criticism from their voting bases gets too strong, these men and women will leave him to fend for himself. We saw this last week when a few republican leaders stated Mueller should be allowed to continue and do his job without interference. The man has also made numerous enemies along the way which won’t help.

Simply put, I can’t see Donald Trump firing Mueller ending any other way besides massive outcry and as the first major stepping stone towards serious discussion and progress towards impeachment. If he keeps Mueller and is found guilty then maybe you could argue his base will complain that the investigation was unfair or biased but simply firing Mueller would lead many to believe he’s hiding something or is guilty. I don’t think he can fire his way out of this one, regardless of whatever the ultimate outcome will be.
I know there would be mass protests and Democrats would be emboldened in asking for impeachment.

However, regarding the Republicans...they seem to be ok with everything else Trump does...why not this. I think either way they'll be punished in the midterms. Either they impeach Trump and get primaried. Or they enrage Dem voters and lose in the general.  

My guess the Republicans haven't shown anything regarding a spine with Trump so far...why shouldn't it continue. 
I think firing Mueller would trigger a strong public backlash. You'd see protests in the streets—as with the travel ban, but larger—and wall to wall coverage at a level exceeding the Comey firing. It would be compared to the Saturday Night Massacre. Depending on the nature of the firing, we could see litigation chanllenging it. There would be calls for Trump's immediate impeachment (the correct remedy for such blatant obstruction and abuse of power) as well as to reappoint Mueller. Where it goes from there will depend mainly on the breadth, depth, and duration of the public outcry. 

Public opinion could shift very quickly and decisively against Trump, as it did with Nixon. And it would surely become a major midterm issue, especially if Republicans did nothing. 

It's possible that contingency plans could go into effect to make at least some of what Mueller has found public to prevent it from being suppressed. Depending on the nature of the misconduct, that could compound the public anger. 

To the extent that all of this drove further, potentially catastrophic losses for Republicans in November, you'd see an empowered Democratic majority in Congress move to hold Trump accountable as soon as it took office. Mueller could possibly be hired as counsel to a congressional select committee, which could be done without Trump's approval. Facing electoral doom, Republicans might be more willing to throw Trump under the bus.

I don't think Trump actually has the balls to go through with this. But I'm also not confident in his intelligence or judgment not to do it in a fit of rage. Yet I don't anticipate it ends well for Trump, should his impulses get the better of him. I don't think Americans are prepared to accept him as above the law, which would be the consequence of accepting Mueller's firing with impunity. 
Nothing. I do predict Mueller will be fired. Once it happens, Democrats will shit their pants, and a few Republicans will complain on TV. More Republicans will defend it as the President reacting with strength against a witch hunt. Most will shrug it off with partisan deference. It won't cost Trump a voter, since he's already lost the ones he's capable of losing. Trump will continue on like nothing happened, and basically be correct. The only consequence will accrue to any Republicans who do oppose him about it. Trump will emerge unscathed, and potentially more emboldened than ever. I can image the narrative on right wing media being that Trump made the deep state tap out. Democrats can try and press it as cause for impeachment if(titanic IF) they retake both houses of congress, but even that is a dead end. Democrats wouldn't have the votes to win a conviction in the Senate, since it would require an inconceivable number of Republicans voting in favor. 

He's going to do it, and Republicans will heel. There is no path to creating a consequence for it. 
I imagine it would help democratic turnout but not do as much for republican turnout. Firing Mueller would outrage democrats but wouldn't excite republicans the same way a border wall would imo. Plus all the leaked information would have the same effect.

I also don't think moderate republicans would turn on him. I imagine they'll complain and argue restraint but focus on something else and vote republican anyway. They (mostly) seem too partisan to ever cross party lines so Trump can do what he likes without fear of them.

Politically it would be another escalation in partisanship and make election interference difficult in future. It might also encourage Trump to push even further for more control, unless a democratic house is in place to keep him in check.
Nothing.  The Dems won't be able to take enough of the Senate in November.  So, basically it would be like the Clinton impeachment which made it past the House but not the Senate.  There would be political fall out, but not lasting from anyone who already supports him.  The only way I could see it happening is some other major hard catastrophe (the economy actually collapsing not minor market manipulation or war).
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.
* The downvote and report buttons are not disagree buttons.  Please don't use them that way.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Democrats will be enraged, republicans will pretend to be upset and do nothing. 

Mueller's findings will be passed onto the department of justice (which oversees multiple US attorneys as well as the FBI) as well as the attorney general in New York State (and possibly other states) so they can continue the investigation and continue to prosecute. The FBI, DOJ and state AGs will continue the investigation. 
The same as the ramifications if he were to be run over by a bus or have a heart attack.  He would be replaced, the investigation might get delayed a bit but it would move on.