Title: What is the political impact of the antisemitism backlash that has led to the UPenn president resigning?

Post:
In a recent Congressional hearing the presidents of Harvard, MIT and UPenn were asked about how they as the leaders of the institutions were protecting Jewish students from antisemitism on campus. Specifically they were asked whether the calling for genocide against Jews violated their codes of conduct against hate speech and harassment.

All three presidents qualified their remarks saying in essence that for such language to be considered a violation the Jewish students must be actually subject to such conduct (being the victims of genocide or physical assaults) or else it needed to be put into context of counterclaims of free speech by the demonstrators.

Soon after, there was an uproar among alumni and in the media which so far has caused the UPenn president to resign. There is still pressure to have the other two presidents resign as well.

What do you make of the controversy whereby Jewish students feel threaten by others on campus and being targeted for antisemitism where in any other situation (blacks, trans, etc.) the students found to do this sort of behavior would be punished? Should colleges keep their hate speech codes or assert that free speech is acceptable? How will this play into the broader politics of the debate about antisemitism and the Israeli-Gaza conflict?

Top Comments:
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review.
* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
So I had to look this up as I was unfamiliar with this. 

https://www.cnn.com/2023/12/10/business/antisemitism-college-campuses-magill-upenn/index.html

> Magill, along with Claudine Gay of Harvard University and Sally Kornbluth of MIT, gave widely criticized testimony, in which they failed to condemn calls for the genocide of Jews as explicitly against campus harassment and bullying codes.

---------------------

Looking here https://catalog.upenn.edu/pennbook/code-of-student-conduct/

>The right to freedom of thought and expression.

> The right to be free from discrimination on the basis of race, color, gender, sexual orientation, religion, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, or status as a disabled or Vietnam Era veteran. 

And further below

>To refrain from conduct towards other students that infringes upon the Rights of Student Citizenship. The University condemns hate speech, epithets, and racial, ethnic, sexual and religious slurs. However, the content of student speech or expression is not by itself a basis for disciplinary action. Student speech may be subject to discipline when it violates applicable laws or University regulations or policies.

While it may seem like these these statements are at odds, the obvious implication is that you have free speech with limits, and that freedom of expression doesn't allow you to discriminate or expose *other students* to hate without expecting disciplinary action. 

--------------


Zooming out a bit, the code of conduct is in place to foster an atmosphere were students feel safe, thus allowing them to learn and grow. So in all cases the university's are clearly in the wrong.

They are in a tricky position sense [anti-Israel sentiment is so high](https://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/meetthepressblog/poll-us-college-students-finds-blame-hamas-attack-israel-rcna120833) on campus it's fueling some more extreme, often hateful rhetoric among unusually large portions of the student base, I understand *why* they were hesitant to strongly condone it, but that clearly goes against their own policy.
Any time someone asks "is it acceptable to advocate for the genocide of" the answer is always no, regardless of what comes after the "of".  This is not a free speech issue, as no one is saying the students in question should be subject to criminal prosecution.
These colleges have walked into a trap of their own making.  They have policed speech on campus for years, with conflicts arising over guest speakers who express polarizing views, often from the political right.

Now that there are far left speakers on campus expressing views that are equally divisive and polarizing these administrators are caught between their left leaning students and faculty vs the donors to the college.

It shouldn’t be this hard to say speech that calls for genocide is hate speech.  Either apply the policies consistently or get rid of them.
Serious question - are there any actual student groups advocating for genocide of jewish people? Like is this a real thing that’s happening, or is it just another made up problem by the right?
Is this about anti-semitism, or is it just about being anti-israel? Because I’m seeing a lot of rhetoric weaponizing my identity as a jew to accuse any criticism against the ongoing violence in Gaza and the West Bank as being anti-semitic. Or even broadly conflating criticism of the state of Israel, a literal ethnostate, with genocidal rhetoric.

Which is ridiculous. That would no more make someone anti-semitic than being against the genocide in Yemen makes someone pro-Iran. I have frankly lost all faith in any accusations of so-called ‘anti-semitism’ aimed at anti-israel rhetoric when governments started criminalizing BDS, and this current scandal follows a similar pattern. 

If our government cared about anti-semitism, they’d go after all of the white supremacists and neo-nazis who have infiltrated our police forces over the past few decades. But our foreign policy goals have trumped sense at home yet again…
I have two big thoughts on this subject.

First, there's going to a be a split in what individual university can and must do between public and private institutions.  The simple fact of the matter is that public universities are going to be subject to 1st Amendment freedom of speech protections, which may limit how they can interfere with abhorrent speech based on the current standard of case law.  Meanwhile, private universities have no such obligations, and will largely be more subject to popular opinion.  So in this example, Harvard and MIT will likely be able to get away with much more in limiting this type of speech if they choose to do so than UPenn could.

Second, this is part that stands out to me:

> All three presidents qualified their remarks saying in essence that for such language to be considered a violation the Jewish students must be actually subject to such conduct (being the victims of genocide or physical assaults)

I'm sure this viewpoint is the type of thing that each university's lawyers have advised these presidents to say, and I'm sure it's defensible in established case law.  However, the big question I have is when these cases that source this precedent were tried, particularly when it comes how harm by speech is quantified.  Suffice it say, we live in a rapidly evolving society with an even more rapidly evolving understanding of how that society is affecting people's individual health.  If the definitions of harm were put into place many decades ago, before concepts like mental health, cyberbullying, and stochastic terrorism were even defined, then I'd definitely think that the needs to be an update in how harm by speech is legally defined.
I feel like I’m taking crazy pills with this one. 

First of all, commenters here and many in the media are hung up on the definition of “hate speech.” Calling for the genocide of any group is obviously hate speech, that’s not the question. The question is when somebody can be punished for hate speech. Hate speech is protected by the First Amendment, and after many lawsuits, private college administrators have largely adopted this framing. 

So their policy is basically “hate speech is protected unless it is targeted and persistent, constituting harassment against a member or members of campus.” This is actually a pretty good policy that balances free speech with protections against major harm. 

People keep trying to frame this as a “gotcha” by saying that these universities care more about pronouns than Jewish students. But that’s an apples-to-oranges comparison! If a student says, “I think pronouns are dumb” or “I think trans people are mentally ill,” they won’t be punished by the university. If they repeatedly misgender and harass a trans student, they will. The same goes for these hypothetical “calls for genocide.”

Second, these calls are entirely hypothetical. There is not a single instance I’m aware of in which a college student has called for the genocide of Jews. Instead, there are examples of students calling for “intifada,” or uprising. The “genocide” thing is just a way to conflate radical pro-Palestinian speech with antisemitism.

Finally, someone might argue that calls for intifada are inherently violent, and thus inherently harassment. But that’s a bad standard because a lot of things are inherently violent! Should students not be allowed to call for military aid to Ukraine? That’s a type of violence. What about political speech about increasing policing, another form of violence? The issue is not actually violent vs. non-violent speech, it’s whether the listener views the violence called for as legitimate and justified or not. And as that’s a pretty subjective thing, it’s actually a good idea for university policy (and law for that matter) to be neutral on it.
Universities don’t like admitting that students don’t usually have free speech protections. Telling students they exist in a limited forum when they’re worked up is a recipe for disaster.