Title: Trump’s pick for FCC chair wants to eliminate the law that protects social media companies from legal consequences for posts on their platforms

Post:


Top Comments:
Selective enforcement. 

They will go after the content they don’t like and give a pass to the content they like.

Elon is fine. Other social media need to bend the knee.
This is supported by old people, people who want to Protect the Children, and people who take comfort in thinking that someone somewhere is being punished in a broad sense. But it would be insane, as anyone who gets how the internet works understands.

It means, for instance, that video hosting services like YouTube would need to have some moderator view every video and approve it before it goes online. Currently 500 hours of video are uploaded to YouTube every minute.

(No, it doesn't mean YouTube could simply use algorithms to catch the worst stuff and respond to complaints after the fact. It already does that right now.)

Edit: In fact, it turns out Carr does not want to repeal 230. This headline is straight-up false. He wants to keep 230 (preserving companies' liability over content) but wants to reduce companies' ability to censor user content.  In a sense, he is almost supporting the opposite of what this headline says, as his stance would lead to more of the posts that the article says the change would fight.
Honestly, if 'social media' went away, we would all survive and probably be a better informed populace again.  There is too much misinformation out there now.
20 bucks it'll contain a loophole specifically drafted for Twitter. Or the legal consequences will be pretty much one sided for things "left" and "woke".
Wouldn’t this just further entrench Big Tech as defacto monopolies?  They potentially have the resources to moderate their content (billions of dollars). Any start up or small company would get crushed into oblivion by this requirement.
Well, that could also mean that in exchange social media platforms will be obligated to track and report on every crazy out there.