Title: In America, why are "moderates" usually defined as socially liberal/fiscally conservative rather than socially conversative/fiscally liberal?

Post:
Whenever you hear about the term "moderate" to describe a politician or highly political activist/celebrity/media figure it is usually in the context of them being socially liberal and fiscally conservative.

This is sometime illustrated by Northeastern/Mid-Atlantic governors like Baker (MA) and Hogan (MD) or former governors like Weld (MA) and Pataki (NY). In each case they were elected in overwhelmingly blue states to act as a fiscal break to their Democratic legislatures, but whom they would acquiesce when it came to enacting cultural/social issues like abortion, gay marriage or gun control.

However, you rarely hear about the other kind of "moderates". Those being socially conservative and fiscally liberal. They are often represented as Blue Dog democrats or former politicians who came from the Deep South when it was overwhelmingly Democratic, but also a conservative region. The closest modern day representative would by governor John Bel Edwards of Louisiana, a red state.

Why are folks like Bel Edwards scarce in media descriptions of moderates but the likes of Hogan are more prominent? Do you think there is a reason why most news defines "moderates" this way? Do you think it is fair or not? Should more voices of the SC/FL be heard from?

Top Comments:
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review.
* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Dunno. I dont see it that way.  To me, moderate is slightly left of center or right of center.  I don’t automatically place them in one side or the other.
I think political parties, and their benefactors prefer the media focus on divisive social issues because they fear fiscal liberalism becoming mainstream. It’s an illusion of compromise where social issues cost them nothing in terms of taxes, and the regulation of Wall St. which I believe is their only actual concern.
American social circles are extremely separated by education and culture. 10% of Americans didn't graduate high school, if you have a college degree you are very likely to not have any friends like that. 40% of Americans believe in creationism (ie evolution didnt happen) and most of the people reading this have 0 creationist friends.

The moderates who are socially conservative and fiscally liberal are mostly Trump voters, and most of them are in the culture that is heavily creationist, and most of them don't have college degrees. You, the OP (and most people reading this thread), probably have a friend group where you met in certain places doing certain things where these kind of people mostly don't go.

Warning, long article mostly about political acrimony only partially about this social separation: https://slatestarcodex.com/2014/09/30/i-can-tolerate-anything-except-the-outgroup/
I'm not American, but I think it is similar here. Imo is just a visibility thing and not something that is fair/ unfair. I think a moderate can be either, but either way moderates are reasonably happy with the status quo with some small changes, but people are just generally more vocal about social change views, so you just hear these more/social change is a more 'sexy' topic that people are more interested in talking or hearing about.
I also think that for the American layperson, being socially conservative is seen as being aligned with conservatives generally, many of these people likely care more about social issues than tax and spending. Basically I'm saying some who is slightly left of centre socially is "moderate" and someone slightly right of centre socially is "conservative" to many people

ETA: more specific answer
There are significant portions of * Ethnic minorities that ARE socially conservative, economically liberal, yet their voting patterns often get them labeled as “left” because in the United States white is “normal” and minority is “political”. It is white moderates who fit the description of fiscally conservative socially liberal because whites are the only group with enough social security to have leeway on who they vote for 

EDIT:

People are misreading what I’m trying to say. I’m not saying “all black people are one monolith”, I’m citing a trend. [on many key issues, blacks are as conservative as republicans.](https://news.gallup.com/poll/112807/blacks-conservative-republicans-some-moral-issues.aspx) however, they vote for democrats for two reasons; because republicans are ethno nationalist and democrats propose economic policies that cater to black communities. To ignore trends is to ignore facts. If blacks people were a white ethnicity instead, they’d be classified as “moderates” but they aren’t because we as a society socially equate minority with “extreme”. Blacks by and large aren’t voting for gay marriage; Latinos despise “Latinx” bs, etc

EDIT 2:

My original source is from 2008. Here are a few more recent sources:

[source 1](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/monkey-cage/wp/2016/09/28/can-trump-win-black-votes-what-we-know-from-5-decades-of-black-voting-data/)

[source 2](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/why-so-many-black-voters-are-democrats-even-when-they-arent-liberal/amp/)

[source 3](https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/analysis-opinion/five-myths-about-black-voters)
Money runs everything and money is against politicians trying to take it. Hence it has become impossible to be fiscally liberal even if it is a good option.
We have a functional breakdown in the ability to define someone's political views.  People are described as "Left" and "Right" without acknowledgement that there are many different topics on which someone can hold views, but the media finds it useful to be reductive in this fashion and remove nuance.

This is exacerbated by the fact that certain political terms have had their definitions fully undermined.  For instance "Conservative" is now frequently used to define those who want to remake America into a less Democratic country, which is inherently the opposite of conservative.

Finally, various pundits and the media, exploit both of these things to falsely describe certain candidates as 'extreme' or 'moderate' based on their preference for the candidate, which tends to be almost exclusively based on economic policy.  

Thus media descriptors of 'Left', 'Right', 'Moderate' are generally at best overly reductive, and at worst, and attempt to misinform.

Tangent:  Fiscal policy is a description of someone's views on how the government should manage deficits, and the money supply.   I think you mean economic policy as economic policy and social policy tend to be the major issue groups most Americans care about.  Fiscal Conservatives like me don't really have representation, because the constituency isn't big enough.
Socially conservative but fiscally liberal is basically how a person who belongs to the Roman Catholic faith would probably describe themselves in the United States.  Fiscally liberal: give money to the poor and disenfranchised.  Watch out for your fellow human.  Help those in need.  And the state should put money toward those goals, too.  Socially conservative: but also let's not promote same-sex marriage, abortion, an upheaval of the family structure, or any of that stuff.

It's weird, because the subject of gun control / violence and war / the military industrial complex is a maze to navigate there.  Violence and violent weapons should be discouraged in Catholicism (at least I think so, but then again I'm a very bad example of a Catholic), but also I think the notion that you should defend your people against the evils of the world is pretty welcome and easily extended to actual warfare in many Christian faiths, Catholicism included.

But as to why you don't actually see much of this flavor of political "moderate" in this country, I think the real answer is that if you have the empathy and care toward your fellow man that leads you to be willing to pour money into social programs, you probably also have the type of empathy needed to want to pursue socially liberal goals.  Like, to give examples: you can easily be comfortable with granting all the same rights/privileges afforded to mixed-sex couples to same-sex couples, but it takes another step more in a liberal direction to be okay with the government paying for the health insurance for either of those married couples.  So that's why it's kind of common to see socially liberal / fiscally conservative moderates in the US: the first step is easy, the second step is harder.

To wind up with more socially conservative / fiscally liberal types, American political culture would have to be such that it's easier to take the step where the government pays for everyone's healthcare, but it's harder to say that same sex married couples should get the same rights/privileges as different sex couples.  And that's just not how it is here.  Our "you can do what you want in this country, but I paid my way to get to where I am, so you should have to pay for it, too." mindset is too strongly ingrained for an influential percentage of people to be socially conservative yet fiscally liberal.
The 'permissable' spectrum of political opinions on social issues is simply far broader than it is on economic ones, congresspeople range from rabid anti choice racist psychos to ultra-woke anti-imperialist, decolonization supporters.  


The equivalent 'permissable' spectrum of political opinions on economic issues however is tiny, it ranges from 'no regulation at all on corporations to do what they want' to 'the smallest possible regulation on corporations to ensure that people arent offended by the number of dead bodies on the street'  


Therefore a label as a moderate only actually serves any use on the former spectrum.