Title: What do you make of presidential insults like "Let's go, Brandon", "Drumpf" and "Thanks, Obama" have on our political discourse?

Post:
It has become common recently among the opponents of the incumbent president to come up with what they think are clever insults about him that have gotten traction in social media and popular culture.

The most recent insult has been against president Biden with the chant "Let's go Brandon" as a cleaner version of "F..., Joe Biden". 

The two previous presidents also had insults spread by their foes. For Trump, among the most notable was changing his last name to "Drumpf" that was first popularized by HBO's John Oliver.

For Obama, the phrase "Thanks, Obama" was a backhanded "compliment" used by conservatives after what they perceived as screw ups happening under Obama like the Benghazi incident.

What do you make of the use of and viral spread of these kinds of insults directed at incumbent presidents? Is it effective for the opposition to keep using them or will it turn off the electorate more than it rallies the base?

Top Comments:
They are puerile, and should be ignored. Reminds me of the response the French Ambassador gave when asked about members of the US Congress calling French fries "Freedom Fries" because they didn't like the French stance on our war against Iraq. He said (quoting from memory) "We have very serious matters to attend to, that have global implications. We don't have time to concern ourselves with what you call potatoes."

\[EDIT: many thanks for the Silver, kind reader.\]
Insults have been around as long as politics has. There wasn't some golden era when people were all super nice to their opponents.
I don't know if "Thanks Obama!" Has the same ring to it a F— Biden. Because amongst my friends Thanks Obama is always used sarcastically for minor inconveniences, while F— Biden is now a step up or down (depending on your viewpoint) which is said by both conservatives and leftists which frustration with the system (with differing solutions)
Imo let’s go Brandon says al lot about the difference between parties.

I voted for Joe Biden but he isn’t my god.  I think Afghanistan was bungled a bit and he has been slow walking removing horrible Trump people and decisions.

Having said that he aligns with my views more than anybody in the GOP so I still support him.  It doesn’t personally offend me if people insult him it just makes me think they are acting crudely.

Being that I’m not in a cult, I don’t feel attacked when you insult dear Leader
What impresses me is how a candidate handles it. Obama not only took it in stride, but referenced it, taking away its power.  
The cookie video: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uhY9Zxv1-oo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uhY9Zxv1-oo)   
Using it during interview: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PvKXAj49ZDc](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PvKXAj49ZDc)
I'm almost 40 and vulgar insults towards political opponents are nothing new.  Not in my lifetime nor in my historical education (largely focused on European and American history).  
  
Drumpf is a weird one to me.  I wish it could have been used as an example of how immigrants were pressured to make up new names that were easier for Americans to pronounce and how that erased history.  Instead, it ended up being used to point out just how close to being an immigrant with a foreign-sounding name a xenophobic bigot is.
I think we are  fortunate to be in a country that do not persecute us for speaking negatively against our "leaders."

It doesn't do anything but alienate and keep us divided. Only those who are uneducated or with poor education use those terms of insults or find them amusing. It does nothing to further the nation.
People have such short memories. "Its never been this bad" is such a dumb idea. To anyone who thinks the republic suffers and our discord has "never been this bad" I direct you to John Adams who said of Thomas Jefferson, ***"“a mean-spirited, low-lived fellow, the son of a half-breed Indian squaw, sired by a Virginia mullatto father.”***

Talking shit is nothing new, and "Drumpf" or "LGB" is nothing, we are just spoiled and thinned skinned on both sides of the spectrum.
I think it's childish all around and brings down the level of everything. Frankly, there are some middle schoolers who are more mature than some of our politicians.
It's largely a result of too much toxic hyper partisan media

It's one thing to be critical of our leaders, especially when they serve poorly, but being childish or excessively crass about it isn't the way to best go about it