Title: Money is Speech - A Revolutionary Proposal

Post:
The populist meme: Money is not Speech betrays a gross misunderstanding of money. While I will not bore you with a dissertation on money, I will defend free speech to the death. I don't think in these increasingly fascist times (Snowden Whistleblowing and IRS targeting) we should be toying with free speech. So allow me this revolutionary proposal.

Average working, earning, and mortgage paying citizens are currently unaware of the power they possess. Of course they need to work together, and get informed about money and markets in order to exert power effectively. But if you remember it only took 6M dead beat homeowners to bring the global financial economy to it knees - and get the attention of politicians in Washington and strike fear in hearts of bankers (and the rest of us). Then its not hard to imagine the power residing in the poketbooks of ordinary free people.

Mortgage money is levered money. Each $1 has perhaps a 100 fold effect on the financial system when it does not show up on time. I need not explain the connectedness between the financial and political spheres. Suffice to say: Responsible leadership is sacred leadership. AND Good banking is scared banking.

If you want these things (responsible leadership and good bankers) then you need to foment the same conditions of fear as what existed in 2008. But this time you need to control the conversation. It is possible and those that lead can benefit substantially.

Imagine if you will paying off $100k of mortgage with as little as $3k initial investment. Imagine at the same time participating in an effective grass roots effort to end Too Big to Fail and all its perverse incentives. As well as solving perhaps three of the peoples' topmost important political grievances, whatever they may be.

I call this the New 700 Club. As in the revolution of FICO 700 plus. Thats the credit score organization Fair Issac. And these individuals are the backbone of what works in the US, because they likely work, earn, and are responsible with what little they have. I say little in comparrison to the big money which runs the show. So long as they are responsible, the New 700 Club spans the class spectrum from working class to upper middle class. And their plight under easy money and TBTF is increasingly vulnerable. They are the silent majority, and they deserve to be heard in an unflitered way. And their foremost political desires ought to be met.

Heres how its done: I call it the poison pill political out reach with a banker strangle. Or, More simply go short mortgage payments long physical gold with a monthly letter writing campaign. No one needs to get violent. Its total civil disobedience we seek.

Short mortgage payment means to withold delivery until you can pay it off for less.

Long physical gold means to buy real phyisical gold, with the mortgage money, in anticipation of a rise in price.

Letter writing campaign means each month you withold mortgage payment, you send a letter indicating you believe Too Big to Fail to be wrong and that your top three political grievances are X, Y, and Z; you decide these. Say you are escrowing mortgage in phys gold because you believe these things and you expect action in your favor by the Banco Fascist Cabal in DC and Wall Street. You mail letter to your mortgage servicer, the prez, your gov, mayor, congress and senate critters, and the editors of NY Times and WSJ, and your favorite bloggers. Via social media, encourage your friends and family to join you.

If you can get 6M people to do this for a sustained period, heres what you can expect to happen. Besides initially being vilified and bullied, (which is evidence of soft tyranny politic and propagandist media) you can expect;

A. The New 700 club and their main grievances will become something the media cannot avoid. They will have to do due diligence on our collective top geivances. Whatever they may be. Media will have to give grievances a fair study and why they are just to cause seemingly responsible people to act irresponsibly. And they will have to explain to the public why Too Big Too Fail is wrong and it should not be permitted by the voters. I.E. pols should understand they will be voted out if they support TBTF and aggrieved political policies.

B. It will cause the global economy to implode. We know this by what we saw in 2008. And we should be afraid. But bankers and politicians should be more afraid. Think Mutually Assured Destruction; hence, we can trust they will for a time shape up and act right.

C. It will cause the price of real physical gold to skyrocket. So you can sell your holdings back to the market when the value of your stack satisfies your mortgage and its arrears.

How you benefit: You get free and clear of your mortgage.

How the economy benefits: You get to use your old mortgage money for consumption or savings. More for you, less for the bank. That means increased aggregate demand. And that is good for the economy. Even Paul Krugman could endorse this part.

How your kids will benefit: Good leadership and responsible banking is a long term strategy for success. We want that for our kids. Arent you willing to fight for that?

A couple of by products:

1. Financial Asset Impairment - this is a defacto wealth tax. Any fan of Picketty can endorse this.

2. You will have shown how money is inextricably connected to free speech, and that even the little guys can employ it.

In the end, and in consideration of " Corporate Personhood" we should ammend the Constitution to protect the individual's right to escrow mortgage payment into gold or any other scarce commodity for the purpose of expressing political greivance. Because money is speech and the people deserve equal access to it.

The French have the General Strike.
We in the US should have the New 700 Club.

Top Comments:
Um...if you withhold your mortgage payment you will lose your home, especially if it can be proven you are in possession of assets with which to pay it. This will happen long before any of the positive effects of your gold hoarding can come into effect.

How many people to you really think are willing to have their homes repossessed to make a political point?
This kind of thing would only change things for the next twenty to one hundred years before the system resets itself. We have gone through several swings between economic growth and return. 

In the late 1800s, we were obsessed with economic return, where only a few people made money while everyone else made next to nothing. Then, with the help of Theodore Roosevelt, Henry Ford, and systematic changes, economic growth took hold, and by the 1920s, most people made lots of money.

Once that happened, deregulation, over-speculation, and deflation took over creating volatile economic return, which crashed into the depression. 

We then swung back to government help on the economy with World War Two (massive spending on military) and things went well for a while, but by the seventies inflation took hold due to government help, and our economy hit a recession for a while.

Then, Reagan took power, deregulated stuff, and built our economy by allowing the rich to make jobs...

Now, the rich have taken advantage of deregulation and created an economy where return outweighs growth.

If we do something like what you propose, it will force companies and politicians to do as we say and we will get economic growth... for a while.

Eventually the pendulum will swing back to greed as later generations become more and more apathetic to what our generation has done. 

If you want everlasting change, grab a gun with another million people, and kick out the rich and government officials and set up a new kind of economy and government.

I would suggest a unitary direct democracy for government, and a local democratic economy.      
Nope not satire. But it does beg irrational behavior. After all. You will never get what you want out of a courrupt system with rational behavior. (Assuming you believe  corruption exists. But of course you do. You read this.)

In the peace and equal rights movements of the 60's and 70's, there were marches and demonstrations. Participants acted so at great personal and physical risk. Some paid the ultimate sacrifice. It required courage against fear. It required belief that peaceful resistance can lead to change. It required passionate defence against wrong headed policy.

I may have missed the boat on this, but Too Big to Fail is wrong. Defense of dollar supremacy by any means neccessary is bad. As bad as Manifest Destiny. In Manifest Destiny indians were labled savages and slaughterd. In TBTF we label threats to dollar supremacy terrorists. We've already assainated US citizens w/o trial under suspicion of being terrorist. There will be more.  

People who support the plight and motives of Mannin of Snowden and the risks taken by their media voices understand what I am foreshadowing.

So yeah my proposal puts individual homes and credit at risk. Some will lose their homes. Many more will see their credit standing diminished. But not all. And it will be their losses which serve as a lens for the wrongheadedness of our leaders. It is then we will understand their courage. They will be heroes.
Reference 2008. How long did people squat? How many continue to squat? The bank does not want your home. They want your payment. They are no good at caring for homes. The 700 Club is good at upkeep. Like I said we are responsible. We are their stewards. We are their best bet. Especially if they believe we have escrowed the funds. Like I said we are responsible. And we are yet unaware of our power. 
In Spain there's a really big anti-eviction movement that's been growing since the financial crises. If somebody in the neighborhood gets "evicted" a bunch of people guard the house and then throw bricks at cops and bank people when they come to kick them out. 

America needs that. 

That said this whole "Gold will save us!" thing is pretty unrealistic. 
Thanks for the historical backdrop. Never new some of that. 

I am not into armed resistance. But I can imagine some are angry enough for one.
I am not doing a money is....I find most people grossly misunderstand money. Evidence is we live in a time where failure is rewarded. Only a people who lost touch with value and values would permit such ignorance.

Blame it on a public school system which prohibits the instruction of value and values.

Sorry.