Title: What is the balance between free speech and spreading misinformation online with people getting their news from social media and podcasts?

Post:


Top Comments:
A world where a central authority decides what is and isn’t “misinformation” seems much worse than a world where we just (hopefully) learn to deal with misinformation
I think adults should be allowed to talk about anything, it's up to individuals to parse through information and gauge for themselves what they choose to believe. The problem is that calls for censoring "misinformation" will always be left up to corrupt people with an agenda that just seek to silence opposition.
People who go to social media an podcasts for news are doing it wrong. I find myself constantly having to remind people that Facebook is not a valid news source. This seems like it should be really obvious, yet here we are. If you aren't getting news from a journalist, you aren't getting news. You're likely just getting opinion.
Free speech gives you the right to spread misinformation, but also, who decides what is and isn't misinformation?  I don't think this will much matter though, I don't think free speech will survive a 2nd Trump term
Misinformation has always been around. What I’ve observed lately is that most people consume and digest news from social media and podcasters as facts and they don’t necessarily do due diligence before repeating what they hear. I’m not saying a central authority is better because it’s suppression. If a podcaster is going to serve as a news source, they should at least cite their sources so listeners can fact check for themselves. 
My thoughts exactly. I constantly have to do the same. And even with some mainstream publishers, I still fact checking but they are now omitting certain information for clicks. It’s a shame that even some news outlets have fallen from the standards they used to have.
I guess I would label misinformation as opinions. Everyone is entitled to believe what they want but opinions are not facts. Facts is supported by data. That’s how I see it at least. 