Title: Meet Voat, the website that wants to be the anti-Reddit: As social news site Reddit tries to clean up its act by limiting some speech, an alternative has sprung up, and it promises to be more free-wheeling.

Post:


Top Comments:
> Among the items no longer allowed: discussion of illegal activities

This is wrong. Steve explained in the AMA yesterday that simply discussing illegal activities is completely within the rules. Enabling users to break the law or breaking the law with your post itself are banned. Which is understandable, as that opens up reddit to some annoying lawyering.
Initially I thought to myself, "Whoever has a problem with reddit should just leave." But now I figure that if voat is able to compete with reddit, 'competition' could actually force reddit and voat to constantly improve.

People jumping to the greener grass all the time might actually balance the scales.
Didn't Voat recently begin purging certain types of material on their site, like what Reddit did to /r/jailbait a while back?
just went to voat. 

first five posts on v/all:

top post is from the reddit frontpage, two posts are about reddit and how it sucks, and a fourth is about arguing the legitmacy of male masturbator over a dildo.


greener pastures 
I've always loved [this XKCD comic](https://xkcd.com/1357/) regarding the issue of "Free Speech".  The fact that Reddit is beginning to "show the door" to the skeevier subreddits and their posters does not mean they're infringing on anybody's free speech rights in any way.  Reddit is under no obligation to give anybody and everybody a platform to express any views or share anything that could negatively impact the site as a whole.  

Voat will quickly learn the same lessons, and will implement similar rules once the media pressure, legal issues, issues with funding, etc. become too much to bear.  
I've never been on reddit and thought to myself "I like reddit, but I wish there were an alternative with more racism, homophobia, and really catered to hate."