Title: Is another Trump possible?

Post:
I'm not talking politically, but as a turning point in the electoral arena/framework.

When Trump announced his candidacy in 2015, he was dismissed as an impossible goof, but that was proven wrong because (arguably):

1-The power of niche social media circles was underestimated (r/the_donald, 4chan, twitter echochambers, youtube, etc.)

2- He was a headline factory, so journalists were very messy by making him dominate the newscycle everytime he said someone outrageous, and just broadcasting his full speeches at times because he brought in viewers

Do you think it's possible for someone to come into the electoral circle and break all norms again, or have journalists/media executives learned their lesson for good?

Top Comments:
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review.
* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Trump has been a fixture in US culture for decades.  He was the inspiration for the character [Biff Tannen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biff_Tannen#Character_creation) in the Back to the Future movies.  

He was the go-to archetype of the rich dude with good hair getting into a limo with a slinky blonde.  Then he had his reality TV show where he got to fire people, appearances on pro wrestling, etc.   He not only has swagger and F-you money, but he's been *that guy* since the 1980s.   

I don't think it will be easy to replicate that.   He didn't just pop out of nowhere and grab headlines.  He has been there for decades, as a symbol and lightning rod for not just wealth, but a certain kind of wealth.  The way he talks, carries himself, etc speak very loudly to a certain kind of American.   They admired him long before 2016.   When they think of a rich guy they admire, they think of Trump, not Bezos, Gates, Buffett, or Musk.  Or (who?) Larry Ellison.  Or the Google guys, or Zuckerberg.  They think of Trump.  They admire him for screwing over so many people and getting away with it.   They admire the sleaze, the trophy wife, the tackiness, and the balls.  

Even if another brash rich dude pops on the scene, he won't have the decades Trump has of being baked into American culture as an archetype.
I don't know. Trumpism is a thing now. What norms are there left to break? 

Like Biden, who sells himself as a centrist, posted a (funny) video acknowledging the dark Brandon meme on the day his opponent was being indicted by his AG. Thats just a goofy 24 hour news cycle thing now. Pre-trump, that'd be wild. 

I think someone could follow the trump blueprint. I don't think that's the same as being another trump. He changed the game.
Trump has one thing which he does really well. He is a master of controlling the media cycle. Penn Gillette talks of how good he was at his job on the apprentice, but also how he was barely literate and unable to read cue cards and mostly ad-libbed.
He isn't the first, or even the worst, demagogue to hold immense power and he most certainly will not be the last. Just think of all the cronies his brand has brought into the forefront of politics. And not just in the US. The man has literally ushered in a modern fascist renaissance across the world.
without a doubt yes. i expect another Trump tbh. another Trump who is not such a buffoon, which would be even more dangerous. he laid bare some things about our political system which i expect some person to come along and further exploit in a more intelligent way.


it's possible such a person comes forth from the left too. ime there is still a lot of discontent out there to be tapped into on both sides of the political spectrum. i see many folks angry and hurting. fertile grounds these days.
I think the current Trump needs to be out of the picture first (prison or death), but yes, a new Republican demagogue can totally come along
I look forward to 2024 GOP nominee Joel Osteen, who will explain to us why the liberal atheists are the true enemy of America because God told him when nobody else was looking.
It's always possible. The deciding factor isn't the candidate, but the general public and our response to them. We've decided that we're willing to accept people like Trump, so that's our current minimum standard until we raise it.