Title: Status anxiety and the culture war, what holds the US right wing coalition together?

Post:
In a recent NYTimes OpEd piece by Thomas B. Edsall, [Status Anxiety Is Blowing Wind Into Trump’s Sails](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/09/opinion/trump-status-anxiety.html), Edsall talks about the plight of the white working class:

---

What is the role of status discontent in the emergence of right-wing populism? If it does play a key role, does it matter more where someone stands at any given moment or whether someone is moving up the ladder or down?

In the struggle for status, Michael Bang Petersen, a political scientist at Aarhus University, Denmark, and the lead author of “Beyond Populism: The Psychology of Status-Seeking and Extreme Political Discontent,” argues:

> Education has emerged as a clear cleavage in addition to more traditional indicators of social class. The highly educated fare better in a more globalized world that puts a premium on human capital. Since the 1980s the highly educated left in the U.S. and elsewhere have been forging alliances with minority groups (e.g., racial, ethnic and sexual minorities), who also have been increasing their status in society. This, in turn, pushes those with lower education or those who feel challenged by the new emerging groups towards the right.

It is hardly a secret that the white working class has struggled in recent decades — and clearly many factors play a role — but what happens to those without the skills and abilities needed to move up the education ladder to a position of prestige in an increasingly competitive world?

Petersen’s answer: They have become populism’s frontline troops.

Over the past six decades, according to Petersen, there has been a realignment of the parties in respect to their position as pro-establishment or anti-establishment: “In the 1960s and 1970s the left was associated with an anti-systemic stance but this position is now more aligned with the right wing.”

Those trapped in a downward spiral undergo a devastating experience.

Lea Hartwich, a social psychologist at the Institute for Migration Research and Intercultural Studies at Osnabrueck University in Germany, wrote in an email:


> Those falling behind face a serious threat to their self-worth and well-being: Not only are the societal markers of personal worth and status becoming unattainable but, according to the dominant cultural narrative of individual responsibility, this is supposedly the result of their own lack of hard work or merit.

Instead of focusing on the economic system and its elites, Hartwich continued,

> Right-wing populists usually identify what they call liberal elites in culture, politics and the media as the “enemies of the people.” Combined with the rejection of marginalized groups like immigrants, this creates targets to blame for dissatisfaction with one’s personal situation or the state of society as a whole while leaving a highly unequal economic system intact. Right-wing populists’ focus on the so-called culture wars, the narrative that one’s culture is under attack from liberal elites, is very effective because culture can be an important source of identity and self-worth for people. It is also effective in organizing political conflicts along cultural rather than economic lines.

---

* Do you agree with Hartwich's analysis of right wing populism? 

* If so how effective are right wing elites going to be at steering their coalitions in the future using culture war issues?

* And how much is the embrace of economic globalization responsible for left wing losses among the white working class?

Top Comments:
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review.
* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
We are in the midst of a political realignment, which traditionally happen every one hundred years or so in this country. When I was a kid Republicans were caricatured as stuck-up country club snobs, now they are portrayed  as hunting jacket wearing truckers who love podcasts about DMT and mix-martial arts fighting. The screw turns.
I’d argue this analysis completely misses how a far more potent organized conservative media props up modern conservatism and populism. 

Fox News, OANN, Breitbart,  plus Radio hosts like Mark Levin, Rush, Glenn Beck, you get the EXACT same message from all these places that gives cohesion. 

Nixon would never have resigned if Fox had been around. I truly believe that. 

Small factory towns don’t really exist anymore.  Economic opportunity is now in major cities and their suburbias, as evidenced by rapid growth of so many metropolises in the states. Working whites are disproportionately in rural areas of the country where the jobs are leaving to either go overseas or to the cities, and that creates anxiety, anger, and resentment to those cities.

We live in a second guilded age with CEOs instead of Tycoons. So much wealth is up top and greedy human nature says they’ll fight to keep it. 

If you’re a billionaire who wants to keep your money, fueling the culture wars to keep political gridlock is the way to go.
Trump's appeal to white working class folks was more personality driven than "right-wing populism," which is a term no one really even identifies by. Trump talks like a guy at the job site. Liberals attempting to do deep ideological psychoanalysis on this are over-intellectualizing it.

While Trump did still win college educated whites in 2016, this class of people tend to prefer the more traditional Republican candidates. We see it in the 2024 polls, with affluent Republicans and independents preferring DeSantis.
Yes; remains to be seen; a lot.

Populism gets its name from the 1891 People's Party. They were a group of people, largely farmers, who recognized the status quo wasn't working for them and came up with a series of specific solutions to address it. (Among the most famous was addressing the money supply by adding silver to the mix.) They weren't opposing the elites for the sake of opposition, but to advocate for themselves and an America that worked for the common man.

In *The People, No,* Thomas Frank wrote:

>From the very beginning, then, populism had two meanings. There was Populism as its proponents understood it, meaning a movement in which ordinary citizens demanded democratic economic reforms. And there was Populism as its enemies characterized it: a dangerous movement of groundless resentment in which demagogues led the disreputable.

We can channel Populism into productive reforms, by rejecting the two party system and advocating for specific policies. The obvious ones are those triple evils MLK identified as poverty, racism, and militarism. A platform of ending poverty with universal basic income, ending mass incarceration with major criminal justice reform, and ending the endless wars by bringing our troops home could challenge the status quo in 2022. Something needs to be done before the country explodes.
> Do you agree with Hartwich's analysis of right wing populism? 

No.  I think Hartwick's premise that "Education has emerged as a clear cleavage in addition to more traditional indicators of social class. The highly educated fare better in a more globalized world that puts a premium on human capital" is flawed.  

Many working class white Republicans are college educated; they simply lack the ancestry and capital that are a white person's entree into elite institutions of higher education. They are employed in positions that require a college education, but they are not highly compensated (i.e., teaching, law enforcement, nursing, etc.).  

"Status" is a concern of elites and the downtrodden; it is not a focus of working class people, white or otherwise.  I think Hartwick is projecting; status anxiety is what *he* would be feeling, were he a working class white person.

The Democratic Party deliberately ejected working class white men from the party in the 1960s, and the Republican Party never represented them.  The constituency remained entirely unrepresented for decades, until their numbers alone resulted in the remaking of the Republican Party. That, along with the common concerns of working class people of all races, is what I believe holds the US right wing coalition together.
>“In the 1960s and 1970s the left was associated with an anti-systemic stance but this position is now more aligned with the right wing.”

This is only true if you view Liberals as Leftists, which is a mistake. The American Left, such as it is, absolutely take an anti-systemic position.
This is a really interesting and in-depth analysis, and I think it's spot-on for the most part.  But this:

>“In the 1960s and 1970s the left was associated with an anti-systemic stance but this position is now more aligned with the right wing.”

It's not exactly wrong that the "anti-systemic" stance is associated more with the right than with the left these days (and when I say "the left" I'm talking about the "left" that journalists say when they actually mean "democrats.")

....but it's categorically fucking false and it drives me insane that it's such a prevalent take these days!  The right *loves* them some sociopolitical and economic systems.  

* They worship capitalism, and *as long as* the uber rich capitalist isn't espousing socially left ideals, they are lionized and venerated (but even then, they clearly earned all that money and no one should ever take it)

* Police?  LOVE the police.  Can do no wrong.  Anyone who says otherwise is clearly a criminal.

* The military?  More money for them, now and forever.  Infinite wars keeps America safe™.  Etc.

* Borders?  **SUPER** important.  Must maintain integrity at all costs.  And everyone has to do everything *legally* because that's also critical to *nationalism*

How in the world is the right being painted as "anti-systemic" when every necessary piece of "the system" is put on a pedestal in their ideology?  How does *any* of that sound "anti-systemic"?

Edited some formatting