Title: How will Joe Biden's race, age, political leanings, and long career factor into his choosing of a Vice Presidential candidate? Who do you think he will ask to be his VP? Will his VP pick likely have a major (or any) impact on his chances?

Post:
Joe Biden, the presumptive nominee of the Democratic Party for the 2020 U.S. Presidential Election, will be picking a VP candidate soon. Joe Biden is 77 years old, White, a political moderate, and a longtime veteran of politics. How is he and his campaign staff evaluating this in picking a VP candidate?  
  
While I have read that VP candidates do not generally sway elections themselves (perhaps with the exception of Sarah Palin), do you think his choice will impact the outcome of the election?

Top Comments:
Based off who keeps coming up on the news I think the order is: 

1. Harris - She is a PoC and has been fairly active in the Floyd protests. If the protests go into July I think she is the clear favorite as long as she keeps her name in the news. Her cons would be that she is from California who will vote blue & has her history as a prosecutor that will be dug up. 

2. Warren - If the country comes together on figuring out new policing laws(lol) or corona/unemployment takes back the headlines in July, then I think Warren would be the frontrunner since she is big on both wealth inequality/healthcare and is the favorite among the 30ish year old democrats who aren't as excited by Biden. Only issue is her spot may temporary be filled with a Republican and Mass. is voting blue. 

3. Duckworth - She would be a midwest/military vote play. She also has that McCain like tragic backstory that people tend to flock to. Cons would be she is fairly moderate so progressives would not be as happy & she isn't as well known as Harris/Warren. If Biden has a massive polling lead in July I could see a Duckworth surprise pick to help counteract Trump trying to use the military again in November to cancel elections as he will for sure make fun of her disability at some point which could tank his support among military members. 

Honorable mention: Demings

I think it will depend if Biden will truly only run for 1 term. If so I think he goes with someone more moderate economically/healthcare since that more is in line with his views. Typically I don't think VPs have a huge factor but with Biden being so visibly old I think that might be different for him. Whoever he picks needs to be someone people feel can take over. Which is why I think Abrams isn't being talked about as much anymore as she needs more experience.
He's already announced that it'll be a woman. And he's almost certainly going to choose a minority. And I'd wager it's going to be Kamala Harris.

Her time as a prosecutor gives her a chance to say [she tried to work within the system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kamala_Harris#Reform_efforts) and it was resistant to change. She moved even more left once she got into politics, and she'd know what kind of reform it needs. That's easy enough to pitch.

There are others he could choose, some who might not have things in their past dragging on their appeal. but regardless expect to see them doing a fair bit of heavy lifting on the campaign. It seems like Biden has everything to lose if he starts speaking a lot more. Now and then is working great for him.
Duckworth ticks every box besides being a play towards progressives. However, young progressives don’t really vote, so I don’t know why the Biden campaign would worry about them.
I can't wait til he choses so this same thread won't keep appearing every 2 days.  VP is largely a meaningless choice as far as the election goes.
Biden's personal politics won't factor in much. He just needs a female that ticks the right identity politics boxes and will toe the line. The man himself just adopts whatever the party decides his policies should be.

Duckworth is highly likely. She's a war amputee and visible minority. Sinema is another possibility, she's young and bisexual. 

Warren is a maybe, simply due to name recognition. I doubt Harris will be tapped; she has ruffled feathers within the party and is too much of a hothead.
It will be Kamala Harris. People providing Warren's name here have absolute zero idea of how politics works. Even Abrams is more likely to get the nod than Warren does.
Am I missing something? Tammy Duckworth is the obvious pick here. I don't understand why this is a hard decision?

Warren or Harris (mostly the former) would be a massive mistake. Demings probably best after Duckworth. 

Abrams is worst choice possible, of all the possibilities.
He'll go for a woman. Klobuchar is out because of her past with Chauvin; Harris is out because of her past as a tough-on-crime prosecutor; Stacy Abrams is in-and-out because of her frolicking with Bloomberg.

I don't think he should pick a black woman - he's got the black vote locked up already. He should go for either Warren, to convince on-the-fence leftists, or a Hispanic woman, to shore up the racial demographic he's weakest with.
I think Warren would be his best potential pick to grab more votes on the left/progressive side, and potentially independents or people who might vote Green Party. The mistake in 2016 was picking Tim Kaine who I honestly don’t think helped HRC gain one single additional vote, as Virginia is a blue state, and Kaine has zero to little political influence. 

More than anything I just think Biden should sincerely pick whichever VP that he thinks will earn him the most additional votes come November, especially any targeted swing state voters.
Biden’s VP, whoever it is, will be set up to become the next President after he finishes his one term (even if he doesn’t commit before the election, he won’t last more than four years). 

Voters will have to consider who they’re comfortable with replacing Biden.