Title: Domestic Terrorism Report by White House identifies (1) racially or ethnically motivated violent extremists who advocate for the superiority of the white race and (2) anti-government or anti-authority violent extremists, such as militia violent extremists. Should it have been more specific in scope?

Post:
The 32 page report expands on the preliminary report from March 2021. This report \[June, 2021\] released by the White House  provides a brief historical background and then dwells into countering it. 

Report notes, in part: After the Civil War, for example, the Ku Klux Klan waged a campaign of terror to intimidate Black voters and their white supporters and deprive them of political power, killing and injuring untold numbers of Americans. The Klan and other white supremacists continued to terrorize Black Americans and other minorities in the decades that followed. In recent years, we have seen a resurgence of this and related threats in one horrific incident after another: the shooting and killing of 23 people at a retail store in El Paso; the vehicular killing of a peaceful protestor in Charlottesville; the shooting and killing of three people at a garlic festival in Gilroy; the arson committed at a mosque in Victoria, Texas; the appalling rise in violence and xenophobia directed against Asian Americans; the surge in anti–Semitism; and more. 

The report asserts that that domestic terrorism is both persistent and evolving and also asserts that    the government approach honors and protects both America's security and America's cherished civil rights and Civil Liberties.  

* Among the listed goal are: Improve information sharing across all levels within, as well as outside, the Federal Government. 
* Strengthen domestic terrorism prevention resources and services.  
* Enable appropriate enhanced investigation and prosecution of domestic terrorism crimes.  
* Address online terrorist recruitment and mobilization to violence by domestic terrorists. 

It also notes that: Recruiting and mobilizing individuals to domestic terrorism occurs in many settings, both in–person and online. These activities are increasingly happening on Internet–based  22 National Strategy for Countering Domestic Terrorism communications platforms, including social media, online gaming platforms, file–upload sites, and end–to–end encrypted chat platforms, even as those products and services frequently offer other important benefits. The widespread availability of domestic terrorist recruitment material online is a national security threat whose front lines are overwhelmingly private– sector online platforms, and we are committed to informing more effectively the escalating efforts by those platforms to secure those front lines. 

Does it look like the overall outlined approach may run a little afoul of the Free Expression provisions or privacy concerns in its application?

 [https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/National-Strategy-for-Countering-Domestic-Terrorism.pdf](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/National-Strategy-for-Countering-Domestic-Terrorism.pdf)

Top Comments:
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review.
* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Can the government at least give us a list of things never to say or opinions to never express on social media to remain citizens with a high Social Credit score? 
 
—Does a red cap with no letters get white people terrorist points? How many points?

The CCP at least let’s it’s people know the rules.
I just want to say this thread makes me incredibly anxious about the future. The comments in here seem to be pretty representative of the current discussions in reactionary conservative circles. It feels like we will never be able to leverage the government to enforce domestic terror on behalf of the citizenry, as the line between a terrorist and a partisan is already becoming blurred by demagogues, who attempt to legitimize certain tactics by falsely accusing their opponents and their leadership of committing those actions and justifying their own use of them as necessary against a manufactured threat. The lynchpin in this discussion is people’s perception of reality. It doesn’t matter what rigorous unbiased committee-based investigations on behalf of the government the FBI performs, if enough Americans will not accept it. The challenge of democracy is that it is a government by and of the people. If the people do not have a consistent understanding of reality, the rules are irrelevant.
I only read your summary and I think this is completely fine.


I think this is actually so not controversial it is boring. I am obviously a fan of politics and find it very interesting, but I almost quit reading the OP like five times. I think nobody will care about this.
Just the 18th amendment and government poisoning of alcohol alone should be enough to question things.  The Church Committee uncovered proof of Project Mockingbird.  Can't deny that.  People have received compensation for damages incurred from MK Ultra.  Same government.  They didn't suddenly get trustworthy.
>Enable appropriate enhanced investigation and prosecution of domestic terrorism crimes.

I don't know about this. "Enhanced interrogation" is what they called flying Iraqis who can speak English to CIA black sites in countries that aren't signed onto the Geneva convention. Although, I have no love for racist white people, they do not deserve what we have done to people in other countries. No one deserves that.
Well this is interesting, as it gives government a more broad and...overarching view on what they consider domestic terrorists. I mean honestly there will always be anti-government sentiment, it's part of human nature.
This is the post 9/11 hysteria all over again and anyone who doesn’t see this is deluded. Except instead of a terrorist attack that killed 3,000 people and took out a major American icon, this was just a bunch of boomers doing the hokey pokey in the halls of Congress and taking dumb selfies. And of course shitting in pelosis desk. At most 6 people died and we now know that the cop didn’t even die from the riot but of natural causes. 

I’m sorry but that’s not nearly enough to justify another national security act. Reddit is all on board because they think it will only effect the people they don’t like. But this bill is way to broad for it to be limited to just “white supremacists”. And it will eventually expand to Vaccine skeptics, Authentic Marxists, and really anyone who dissents.

Expanding the national security state has never ended well. The last major security acts from 1917, 2001 and of course COINTELPRO, were all abused and saying you voted or supported them today is political and social suicide. Yet here we go again...