Title: What can we make of Twitter's position that Internet access is a human right after the Nigerian government blocked Twitter in Nigeria and its banning of Donald Trump?

Post:
[https://www.cnet.com/news/twitter-is-banned-in-nigeria-after-it-removes-presidents-tweet/](https://www.cnet.com/news/twitter-is-banned-in-nigeria-after-it-removes-presidents-tweet/)

Donald Trump has been banned from Twitter and other social media platforms because he broke some of their rules. Should private companies regulate speech or should they be treated as a utility? At the same time, Twitter's position when Nigeria blocked Twitter access in its country was to claim that access to the Internet is a human right, which seems at odds with its policy of banning people and a president from using its platform. What do you think should happen?

Top Comments:
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review.
* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Twitter is both a private platform and major outlet of disseminating information in a way that's accessible to the public. 

Access to twitter isn't a human right, but I'm not sure how ethical it is that a few private platforms have such great control over shaping narratives and distributing information. 

A few individuals could effectively decide the outcome of any election through targeted censorship if they wanted to.
Watching people disingenuously compare a government blocking it's citizens access to information to individuals being banned from specific sites for violating the TOS is frustrating as hell.
Twitter is trying do what every company does, make arbitrary decisions and the whine and bitch when someone else does what they do to them.
Internet Access *should* indeed be a human right, on par with access to clean drinking water, food and shelter - it's near mandatory to properly interact with society and gain access to government services these days.

At the same time, the defacto public square on the internet has been privatised and we need regulation to ensure that places like Twitter and Facebook with dominant control and size actually become usable *as* public squares properly - transparent rulesets that don't discriminate based on belief or any other personal characteristics, proper appeals processes and the ability to still access purchased content even if they suspend your access to the social parts. 

Also, them banning any politician is pretty appalling - by giving access to one candidate but not another, they're basically interfering in elections, and that shouldn't be allowed at all.
A product or service can't be a human right unless the resources and labor of others becomes a human right.

It's marketing by twitter since that sort of branding is hot right now.
> Should private companies regulate speech or should they be treated as a utility?

They're regulating speech people submit to them. I don't see why they shouldn't be able to do that, they're the ones hosting it. Utilities should be things that are critical to our lives but, because of a high barrier of entry, lack much competition. I'd argue Twitter isn't critical to our lives and doesn't lack for competition. 

> What do you think should happen?

What Twitter said is little more than marketing. It's in Twitter's best interest if access to it is considered a right, because that results in more Twitter users. I agree with them that access to the internet at large is a human right, but their stance that Nigeria blocking them is some kind of human rights violation is dubious. 

Which is not to say I agree with Nigeria on this. It seems to me the government is saying "If the president's speech gets moderated, everyone's speech will get moderated", which is just relatiatory. They said that Twitter was banned

>because of "persistent use of the platform for activities that are capable of undermining Nigeria's corporate existence."

which implies simply removing a tweet by the president is so impactful that it threatens the country's very existence. This also seems dubious.