Title: [Serious] Redditors who are mods of any social media: What is the most disturbing video / post you've ever had to delete due to a report from another user?

Post:


Top Comments:
Long time ago I was a mod on gaiaonline when 4chan was hitting it... I have had to deal with everything from Child stuff to people doing burial things to animals to images that would crash peoples computers. I eventually started using a web tool that stopped off site images from loading once I knew it was a troll account and it didnt take me long to clean up the mess from there.
The worst I'd seen was pornographic genital mutiliation. It was a bunch of images on across some threads. I actually got an image blocking extension just for removing them.
Mod here right on reddit. It was on a subreddit about a tv show that got canceled after one season. One random guy started to post random YouTube videos of several women explaining how to clean your ass and vagina.

Not really as bad as other people's stuff but I was confused as hell.

Edit: this became a guessing game huh, well, let me help:

-it's a CW show

-it only has one season

-it got canceled

-the show ended between 2015-2017.

-its kind of like Lucifer from FOX (now Netflix)
I was one of the admins for a closed Facebook group for small business owners (mostly home-based businesses, like hand-made jewelry, artisan soaps, etc.). One lady had a few money-making ventures, one of which was selling off her dogs' puppies. Allowing her to discuss this was a gray area for us, as it wasn't exactly a puppy mill, since she only had the two dogs, and they were beloved pets. 

One day, though, she posted a picture which was so bizarre, it took every single person who saw it a couple of minutes to grasp what they were seeing. She was proudly displaying, all in a neat row, the snipped tails of the current litter. Thinking about it now still turns my stomach.

Between the horrified comments on the post itself, and the direct messages all the admins received, we felt completely justified in removing the picture, and telling her posts like that were not allowed. Of course, she didn't see why everyone was so upset, and she left the group on her own, thus negating any need to ban her.
I've modded a relatively large subreddit for just over a year

Some asshole kept trying to post the same picture of a mutilated cat corpse on different accounts before. The cat was dead and strung up by the neck by a thin piece of string on a door handle or something. Poor thing. That was something that really shocked me

Someone also put a comment on a thread which allegedly linked to child pornography. I of course did not click it, I did not want the police kicking my door down, so I removed the comment, banned the account from the subreddit and notified Reddit admins. Hopefully they sorted things out
I moderate a couple of obscure storytelling/alternate reality/bizarre humour subreddits. 

We regularly have posts where people link images in their selfposts to illustrate what they are 'experiencing'. We once had someone "accidentally" link an extremely explicit hentai image instead of their intended link... guess they were multi-tasking or something? 

Had to take that one down pretty quick. 
Used to be a mod of a Nintendo forum. There was a day where one guy decided to post as much beastiality porn as possible before being banned.
That fucking video of a puppy in a snake tank. im sure you guys have seen it. Especially when they make a video that seems innocent and edit it to add the snake attacking in the last second.

The culperits kept making loads of accounts and posting it.
I had to block two people on a Discord server because they were having this back and forth over who could post the most bizarre porn. It was like they were trying to one-up each other on how kinky and varied their interests were. Nothing illegal for me to have to deal with and there's nothing that disturbing about porn (plenty of servers have porn sections). It was just that it was like this constant stream of porn links and I found their desire to show off what they were interested in most disturbing. Both straight men, too (afaik).