Title: Do you think that Democrats need to do more to make a distinction between liberal politics and liberal culture?

Post:
When I look at the state legislature map in America, I have no idea why so many states have republican legislatures. At least in a political and policy-oriented context. 

I'm inclined to believe that the shift is cultural. I think too many Americans -- particularly those older -- are conflating culture with politics. They seem to make no distinction between a decadent, socially-liberal pop culture and an economically pro-working class, liberal political party.


You basically have republican/conservative-oriented entities and industries -- like Wall Street, Madison avenue, and big media -- churning out endless images of increasingly decadent, offputting, repulsive, and shock-value "liberal" culture (think Miley Cyrus in underwear swinging on a wrecking ball). Then, average Joe in Kansas, or Idaho, or Indiana basically redefines and re-interprets that as "liberal" in a political context. Young people, I've noticed, are beginning to do this too. A lot of the back and fourth I see taking place in political discourse, actually has very little to do with politics, and a lot more to do with culture and the culture wars.


Do you think democrats are not doing enough to separate themselves from socially-liberal pop culture? When you consider that it's large corporate industries -- inherently conservative and free-market oriented -- that are the ones painting the democratic party with this image, do you think that they need to work on revamping their image and making a clear distinction between culture and politics? Is it even possible?


Top Comments:
I think what you are trying to say is that there should be a greater emphasis on policy. And while that's true, the populace has proven time and again that they don't want to pay attention to the details of policy. Good policy doesn't win elections, *personality* does.
> You basically have republican/conservative-oriented entities and industries -- like Wall Street, Madison avenue

I highly question Wall Street and Madison Avenue being republican or conservative. If anything most of the Presidents/CEOs of these companies are center left. 
Oddly enough the socially liberal culture is the embodiment of what free market capitalism has created. The entertainment, fashion, LGBT+ community, is formed from free-markets such as imports of goods from overseas, reliance on creativity of the arts, demand for goods/services from the rebellion on social norms, exposure to foreign cultures/food/people, and doesn't stress the ideals of "manly" or "real Man's" labor/job. It has created the expression for manual jobs "Who really wants to work an assembly line factory job nowadays? McDonalds? Construction? Not me." among some folks. 

Parts of this culture is attractive to wealthy folks because they enjoy some excesses of life aka fashion/weird alternative culture/supporting globalism due to travel. It has allowed individuals to express as themselves for good or for worse. We live in 7+ billion people world. People are bound to have differences and it will likely increase unless cultures and nation states get too similar to each other. This is why NeoLiberals are pro-free-trade, pro socially liberal, and pro-globalism compared to Labour Liberals in Industrial Towns who are antitrade, not as socially liberal, and very Nationalistic. 

This divide is very important when understanding urban politics or even the case among minority groups, since it relates back to "Then, average Joe in Kansas, or Idaho, or Indiana basically redefines and re-interprets that as "liberal" in a political context." It is precisely the reason. Why would a manual labor worker want to enjoy the culture fashion/entertainment industries? They don't wear the same clothes nor have the same creativity or absurdity level. Why are some minority groups just as socially conservative? Because they are still supportive of their beliefs in tough jobs, strong masculinity, etc

This is why Democrats have shifted from the party of supposedly only wanting Fair Trade/Pro-More Legal Immigration to now Pro-Free Trade/Pro-All Immigration. Before you know it, Democrats might appear to be the party of Pro-Business in the future. Also, why some moderate conservatives, who have some similarities to these Liberals aka well to do Suburbanities in some locations are now somewhat attracted to them, but not yet in willing to do so because they have always viewed the Republican Party as the Party of Small Taxes, Pro-Free Trade, and Pro-Business, but are more socially tolerant than your Evangelical Republican.


I think your question is a bit confused so let's reframe it (and then I'll critique it):

Would it be politically advantageous for Democrats to counter or even outflank Republicans as being the party of traditionalists for instance by using anti-entertainment industry language etc? 

It is possible that in some areas Democrats could benefit by doing this. However, given the nature of their coalitions, it seems that their attempts would need to be limited. The entertainment industry for instance does give to Democrats. Minority & reproductive rights groups also tend to back Democrats. Politicians could win votes this way piecemeal on the local level, but probably not on a national one. This is somewhat analogous to the way Republican governors esp. in blue states don't cast themselves as being anti-government. 


But if I was pushed, I'd say the strongest possible way Democrats could outflank Republicans, is by casting themselves as pro-family or perhaps framing Republicans as anti-family. (e.g. Republicans are against universal pre-K, protections on family leave) There might even be a remote possibility to leverage the data on high divorce rates within red areas as an indictment of GOP policies. 

Now the critique: It's not clear if the "culture wars" have the effect you believe they do or if the average Kansan has a problem with Miley Cyrus. It seems more parsimonious to credit Republican gains to the nature of urbanization and geographic sorting. (Cities tend to need "big government" and as Democratic constituents move into more urban areas, their votes are "wasted"). Additionally, despite rhetoric used by some groups, it's not clear that Republican areas are any less likely to enjoy "decadent media". Moreover, it's possible to interpret Trump's recent victory as a sign of the weakening of the traditional/religious right.
You're basically talking about "reverse post material" theory, which states that as the Democrats and center-left parties sideline material economic appeals for ones based on diversity of culture and so on, working class people may be drawn to right-wing politics in reaction. I tend to agree somewhat, check out the wiki here: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_post-material_thesis
You're not wrong. 'Older people' and younger people both are being political about culture...and there's a reason for that.

Most Americans aren't suffering. There is no great boogeyman threatening to kill every male over the age of 12 and rape every woman. Few people are outright starving and the ones that are are easily enough brushed aside as causing their own problems. We haven't had a crisis in 3 generations that threatened our way of life more than superficially. We haven't lost 15% of our men in war or had our roads cratered.

We don't even have great questions of economy left. Capitalism has won. The world has accepted free trade. No one's arguing with us about the proper nature of mankind, much less threatening to impose it on us.

Humans and monkeys both, in the absence of an existential threat, turn on each other over petty differences. So the only thing left to argue about, the only 'other' left, is cultural. When we lack a threat we fashion one out of people who are really quite a lot like us.

Humans need something to hate.
Average Joe in Kansas here to weigh in. 

I don't think there is a concerted effort to paint Democrats to look like Miley Cyrus, whatever that means. 

I think most middle Americans are a bit put off by the types of characters that you describe, but I don't see that necessarily translating to the political side. I know many older Americans here in the midwest who are super "conservative" in the sense of being traditionalist and religious, while at the same time sharing many values that are politically liberal. 

Of course politics will always be inextricable from personality of the candidates. I can tell you definitively that most of us here in flyover country thought the most recent election was a sort of twisted Sophie's choice between two very bad candidates that weren't genuine or likeable. Think about it. The choice was essentially between two New York multimillionaires, neither of whom represented anything middle class or midwestern people valued. 

Democrats (both parties for that matter) would be better served to focus on policy points that help people. This means not focusing the individually restrictive policy (the "you can no longer do x/y/z, for your own good" type of policies). 
>When you consider that it's large corporate industries -- inherently conservative and free-market oriented -- that are the ones painting the democratic party with this image, do you think that they need to work on revamping their image and making a clear distinction between culture and politics?

Well, that's not a loaded premise - and almost always the sign that someone is closer to the fringe than center when they paint an institution as right leaning that many on the right consider left leaning.

I mean, that same media also pushes the image of everyone from rural parts to be snaggle-toothed rednecks or hillbillies or farmer Joe who may or may not be married to cousin Jane.

I mean that same media has churned out plenty of movies about conservative politics, Wall Street, and other not-so-flattering portrayals of right-leaning culture too. Where do you think so many liberals get their ideas about how Wall Street or the military works? (More often than not, entirely wrong?)

>You basically have republican/conservative-oriented entities and industries -- like Wall Street, Madison avenue, and big media -- churning out endless images of increasingly decadent, offputting, repulsive, and shock-value "liberal" culture (think Miley Cyrus in underwear swinging on a wrecking ball). Then, average Joe in Kansas, or Idaho, or Indiana basically redefines and re-interprets that as "liberal" in a political context.

Plenty of those very celebrities and images get associated with liberal culture and liberal politics precisely because said people are loud advocates of liberal politics. Susan Sarandon has consistently found a need to put her two cents in for the Green Party. 

And plenty of liberal activists and liberal causes do it to themselves. Starbucks vowed to hire refugees after the first Muslim ban - plenty of people went "uh, how about unemployed Americans first?" 

All I'm seeing here is people blaming other people for their own side having idiots too
The reason why most corporations sells decadence is because it is within the interests of the corporations to sell the idea that selfishness and freedom are good. If there is personal freedom then it follows that there must be business freedom, which means less regulation and tax from government.

Most rust belt Americans just don't understand this. They want socialism and communism. They want the government to intervene to end this decadence. However, they have been brainwashed.
US politics is all about culture. The right believes culture creates success while the left believes circumstance creates culture. Every single issue and argument are basically this:

Right: Our Judeo-Christian dominated western culture has lead to a lot of prosperity, we should preserve it so it'll continue. 

Left: This prosperity is great. So now that we have the means to do so let's extend it to everyone!

Right: But that's not how things have been up until now. If we change it'll change our culture.

Left: So?

Repeat from the top and that's American politics for ya.