Title: At what point does "criticizing the media" become "undermining the free press"?

Post:
A robust independent press is obviously important to a functioning democracy, and so is freedom of speech, but do these two important factors conflict with one another?

Obviously, outright government censorship is an attack on freedom of the press, but that line has blurred recently with statements that might be explained as impugning the legitimacy of particular outlets. While not strictly censorship, such rhetoric can make the audience less likely to trust their stories going forwards.

Is there a clear line in the sand to be drawn here, or is it essentially just a judgment call? Is there a substantial difference between calling CNN "fake news" and calling Fox News "conservative propaganda" beyond a feeling that one criticism is more valid than the other? Or does the problem arise when this kind of statement is made by a president instead of a private citizen?

Top Comments:
When the criticisms are broad \(ie against all of the press, rather than specific outlets or journalists\), vague \(ie "the press is a bunch of liars" rather than "I have a problem with XYZ"\), and intended to get people to stop paying attention to the press. There is nothing wrong with calling out specific press outlets or specific journalists for specific grievances. When a politician or leader tries to get the public to distrust all press, regardless of outlet or story, then it becomes undermining free press.
To me, the line in the sand has always been Truth. If you call something fake news in a story which has presented false information as true, then you are criticizing the media. If you call something fake news because they are reporting something you don't want people to hear, it is undermining the media. Similarly, if you report false information or neglect to report stories that are relevant, news begins to become propaganda, but if you report all facets and differing opinions, it just stays news.

Obviously there is still a gray area when considering biases and the manner in which news is presented, but the above has always seemed black and white to me.
\> Obviously, outright government censorship is an attack on freedom of the press, but that line has blurred recently with statements that might be explained as impugning the legitimacy of particular outlets. 

No, it hasn't. Freedom of the press doesn't mean freedom from criticism. The press can still function despite criticism, even from the president. In fact, the press has continued to function just fine despite criticism from the president. That alone proves that the line hasn't been blurred between what is and isn't censorship.
As we are talking about this, CNN reporter April Ryan spreading fake news about Trump being booed and heckled when he came out to celebrate America.  Turns out it was one guy. 

[Video](https://twitter.com/realsaavedra/status/1004098070626250752?s=21) 

Simple criticism doesn't undermine the free press. Press freedom is not reliant on silence of criticism from people in power, and elected officials have been critical and angry about the press and its coverage for generations.

Trump calling CNN fake news does not blur the lines at all. It's perhaps more uncouth than we're used to, but it is not materially different than trying to remove press outlets from the press pool for partisan reasons (Obama), or prompting the citizenry to complain to the FCC about broadcast media bias (Nixon), or forming the FCC in part to influence editorial decisions on the radio and to go after individual reporters and outlets (FDR), or Woodrow Wilson's executive order of 1917 largely considered this nation's first "ministry of information," to even Thomas Jefferson claiming that "nothing can now be believed which is seen in a newspaper."

Contrary to popular belief, executive hatred of and attacks on the media are not new. Trump has not acted on it the way his predecessors did yet, so I would hope we can at least agree that actions speak louder than words, but the free press has survived much more than this. 
> A robust independent press is obviously important to a functioning democracy, and so is freedom of speech, but do these two important factors conflict with one another?

They cannot conflict with one another because properly understood they are the exact same thing.

> but that line has blurred recently with statements that might be explained as impugning the legitimacy of particular outlets. 

No it hasn't. 

> Is there a clear line in the sand to be drawn here, or is it essentially just a judgment call? 

Yes: active censorship by the government.

> Is there a substantial difference between calling CNN "fake news" and calling Fox News "conservative propaganda" 

Absolutely none. 

> Or does the problem arise when this kind of statement is made by a president instead of a private citizen?

Not really. Presidents have always disparaged press outlets which are openly hostile to them and sympathetic to their opponents. The only difference on this account between Obama and Trump is that the press tends to skew liberal Democrat so Obama's ire was focused on a few notable exceptions to that general trend while Trump enjoys a "target rich environment"

Trump is crass, thin-skinned and frankly rather stupid. But fundamentally his treatment of the press isn't much different from anyone that came before.
>Is there a clear line in the sand to be drawn here, or is it essentially just a judgment call?

There's a very clear line, which is lying.

If you have to lie about the press and how they handled stories in order to criticize it, then your intention is clearly not to improve the quality of reporting, but to support an agenda.  

>Is there a substantial difference between calling CNN "fake news" and calling Fox News "conservative propaganda" beyond a feeling that one criticism is more valid than the other?

Absolutely. Objective observation of the amount of and depth of intentional lies produced by one media organization relative to another is the standard by which one can judge how valid the criticism is. Is CNN publishing intentionally fake stories more often than Fox is intentionally pushing misleading info supportive of Republican politicians?

>Or does the problem arise when this kind of statement is made by a president instead of a private citizen?

The president's voice has far more impact than a private citizen, so again, it's problematic if the president lies about it.
I'm a little surprised that the responses here are *so* tilted towards essentially blaming the media and generalizing their motives while simultaneously eliding the fact that the current administration has routinely called outlets 'fake' for reporting things that are verifiable facts. While I agree that criticism of the media is, in general, unlikely to cause any long\-term harm unless combined with other forms of suppression, I think this misses the forest for the trees.

When specific news outlets are labelled 'fake' by government officials for reporting facts \(which has happened numerous times throughout the current administration\), this, after enough iterations, becomes something a systemic undermining of the idea of 'truth' in the public's eye. I think that this is a far more clear and present danger than any undermining of the free press that has or hasn't been going on; the press's freedom is doing fine, but the public's ability to separate fact from fiction is clearly at risk here, and that's what worries me most. 
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.
* The downvote and report buttons are not disagree buttons.  Please don't use them that way.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I believe it's the behavior of our media outlets that is undermining "the free press"

Trump's calls of "Fake news" only has legs because he often has a point.  Media outlets on both sides are constantly misinforming their readers by telling them what they want to hear.

Rarely do they flat out lie but they are constantly twisting the truth by exaggerating or putting a spot light on some facts while minimizing or omitting the facts that don't support their narrative.

They don't provide the facts of a story they tell a story not the story by presenting the facts they like.


For example, Google "Trump calls white nationalist fine people". You will find an abundance of stories that quote Trump and claim he is referring to Nazis and white nationalist when he says fine people on both sides.

What you won't find is Trump literally follows that statement up moments later with **and I'm not talking about Nazis and white nationalist they should be condemned totally**

Now I have had this debate several times "fine people wouldn't stand with Nazis" "anyone protesting the removal of the statue is a Nazi" etc

But that is all besides the point right now, because no matter what you think "he really meant"  it is horribly biased journalism to write an article claiming or implying that trump was calling Nazis fine people if you aren't going to address the fact he literally said he isn't talking about them and they should be condemned.

At the very least these stories should mention that he said he wasn't talking about them and that he condemned them even if they wish to make an argument he didn't really mean it.

Omitting that pertinent part of the quote is why fake news has legs, because for every article you post (that isn't a transcript) that has that quote I can post 15-30 that don't.


Fox does the same horrible stuff, the problem is people notice when the opposition does it, but it rarely seems to register when their team does it


Anyway, what we really need is a more honest media