Title: Is the /r/PoliticalDiscussion 'experiment' a failure? self posts in r/politics were 'temporarily removed' in the hope this may become a 'thriving' community. Has that happened? Should self posts be restored to r/politics more inside.

Post:
Over a month ago, the r/politics mods said:

> The problem with these [self posts] is that they are essentially opinions, and there is no article to “fact check”.

Despite the fact that many blogs/news sites/etc linked to r/politics are opinions which are sometimes quite devoid of real fact (or even sometimes straight-out distort/lie), this statement lead to the banning of self posts in r/politics.

> As a result, we are going to try an experiment. /r/politics will now become a link-based subreddit, like /r/worldnews. Self posts will no longer be allowed. We’ve created /r/PoliticalDiscussion for ANY and ALL self posts. This new subreddit is purely for your political opinions and questions. So, if that’s the type of content you enjoy participating in, please subscribe there. 

As mentioned, this subreddit was to be an 'experiment', despite the what seemed to be most of the commenters disapproving of the idea, BUT, it was only a temporary experiment, right? 

No real timeframe or criteria for success were defined, two things which are necessary to quantify any 'experiment', but the following text was given. This was a concern for me from the start.

> After a limited time, the moderators and users will assess the impact that this policy has had and determine whether it has been beneficial for the subreddit. We hope that this policy will make this subreddit a great hub of information and fact-sharing, coupled with a legitimate discussion of the issues in the comments. We also hope that /r/PoliticalDiscussion becomes a dynamic, thriving place to share thoughts and opinions.

Although I feel there is some very good discussion here, so far there is only around 1750 subscribers, and the majority of posts on the front page struggle to get over 50 comments. Compare this to r/politics with ~700,000 subscribers where we would once have 1000's of comments.

It is my belief that while I think this subreddit is a good one and should be kept, on the overall, this 'experiment' has failed.

I'll give the following reasons:

- Original opinions/conversations started in r/politics were one of the best parts of the community, and I believe they were a strong focal point for grassroots discussion in the entire political sphere. Removing them has just prevented individuals from creating original content easily that can be seen and voted upon by almost 1,000,000 people. It also allowed for the discussion with a great number of people. This subreddit has failed to have even 1% of the previous scale.

- This policy was meant to clean up r/politics, yet we still see a lot of blogspam and posts move to the front page where the content is (to be polite) less-than-fantastic. It also favors those with original ideas/opinions who have the technical know-how/time to set up their own blogs. r/politics in my opinion, isn't any nicer.

- Although many self posts were outright lies/distortions/etc, debate was very lively, and in many cases the top comment would be a correction of the details. Follow up posts were also generated leading to a very energetic flow of ideas and discussion, r/politics set the standards for political discussion not just on this site, but many other places to. This subreddit goes barely noticed, and instead of being a net influencer of discussion, r/politics is just a consumer of mainstream news and other blogs.

- People with grievances about the conduct of r/politics policies, mods, users, etc have nowhere to post grievance. 

- This is meant to be a democratic site. I understand the problems with democracy quite well, and as someone who doesn't quite fit in the 'hivemind' clique I sometimes have my issues with content/etc, but I sincerely believe that on the overall, the quality and discussion were better before.

Some questions to the mods of r/politics:

- What is the criteria for success or failure with this 'experiment'.

- How long is 'temporary'?

- You said that the users would have a chance to asses whether the policy has worked/failed. When will this happen and how will it happen?

Some questions to you guys/gals here: (I know that we are only 0.25% of r/politics, so the opinions here may not necessarily represent the whole group, but)

- What do you think about this 'experiment'? Is it successful, is it a failure?

- Would you prefer r/politics with/without the self posts?

-------------------

**Please share your ideas/opinions**

------------------------

Thanks for reading to here :)

Happy redditing!

Top Comments:
My problem with this sub is that there just aren't enough people; it's the same like 20 voices for the most part, which gets boring, no new blood or arguments.
>This policy was meant to clean up r/politics, yet we still see a lot of blogspam and posts move to the front page where the content is (to be polite) less-than-fantastic

Exactly.  Instead of self-posts on the front page of r/politics saying that Rick Perry is dumb, we now have links to blogs saying Rick Perry is the dumb.  I don't see how this policy has "cleaned up" r/politics, at all.  Apparently, the opinions of obscure bloggers are more important than the opinions of the Reddit community in r/politics...


I think this might be the only thing Cheney_Healthcare and I agree about.

I said from the start that removing self-posts from Politics was silly in that self-posts weren't the problem and unless you are going to remove editorials as well you were basically just saying that any off-site writer's opinions, however unsubstantiated they might be, were better than any Redditors post just because of where it came from.  

The mods in r/Politics were just using their power to try and re-brand the unbrandable and turn r/Politics into something more like r/WorldNews than r/RedditorsPoliticalOpinions which is a flop because it has always been the comments that have made it into the *biased* beast that it is.  

With a small...small fraction of the r/politics group is subbed here and that's why it has a higher level of discussion.  The downvote brigades on both sides don't care about a subreddit this small and why would they.  

This change wasn't going to solve the "problem" because the "problem" was in the mod's minds and not the communities.  They wanted their will and vision for the subreddit to usurp that of the voting community.  

Fuck them.  

Restore self posts.
I strongly believe self-posts should be restored to r/politics. IMO, there has been less meaningful discussion since removing the ability to self-post. It seems as though the biggest problems there- sensationalism, misleading titles and fanboy ideologues- hasn't slowed down at all. In fact, it seems to have gotten worse; I don't go there as much as I used to because of the higher percentage of shit making the front page recently.

I wouldn't consider this sub a failure. It has it's purpose and should definately remain a sub if self posts are reinstated in r/politics. But the fact of the matter is, this sub just doesn't have many frequenters for discussion to be as deep or diverse as it'd be in r/politics.

**TL DR Self posts should be restored in r/politics. Is seems to have less meaningful discussion now and there is still as much, if not more, sensationalism and fanboys**
I've started to dread orange-reds ever since I've become active on this subreddit.

If it weren't for the resident trolls like [zeron5](http://www.reddit.com/user/zeron5 "How do you even get -4000 karma?") that shit all over everyone else, this would probably be my favorite subreddit. As it is, the constant barage of insults and condescension I see directed at both myself and others makes me wary of actually commenting.

If we could somehow clean up discussion, we would see a lot more activity.
I am not sure if this subreddit is a success as I don't know exactly what the mods hoped to accomplish by creating this subreddit. I will say, however, that I prefer the current system. I feel like debate is more respectful here than it was on self-posts in /r/politics. I think downvoting out of disagreement is less present here. I think this subreddit is more conducive to political discussion than returning to /r/politics.
I think we should give it more time and let the community develop more. If the goal was for more spirited discussion and lively debate, I think we have that. I see comments as being more respectful. If it were a bigger subreddit, would it get out of hand with the current structure? Maybe. But I think it is too soon to call it a day on the subreddit.
I think it would be nice to have self posts in both subreddits as those who are really motivated to see self posts will also subscribe to r/politicaldiscussion where the posts have been fairly good IMO. It's also easier to not have to navigate 100s or thousands of comments