Title: Am I wrong or does the BBC seem to be against free speech?

Post:
I am not usually one to get involved in political conversation, so I may be off here. However, recently with all the talk of SOPA and internet censorship, the papers and news sites all seem to trend on the idea of abuse on facebook and the not so nice side of the web. This never bothered me really, the stories seem at times ridiculous, and out of touch with "internet culture"

But recently I watched the BBCs "The Anti-Social Network" which can be found [Here](http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/episode/b01dwg1n/The_AntiSocial_Network/) 

In a nutshell, it covers "Trolls". Internet Trolling to be precise. But the Entire thing comes across as some propaganda tool to me. The Trolls seem very weak, there is no other side fo the story ever really given, they have really highlighted these trolls as nasty, horrible, potential serial killers. Lets be honest we have all at times lost it a bit on the net and trolled once or twice. But its not serious, its letting off steam, and its NOT A BIG DEAL. 

But I came here to ask, do you think these "documentaries" should be giving the side of free speech and warn what internet censorship will bring along with it, what could potentially lose?

Top Comments:
This has nothing to do with free speech, What you're arguing is that some BBC reporting isn't politically neutral, that doesn't reduce people's ability to express contrasting viewpoints.
I'm one of those who believes that the term "free speech" is misguided if it is not referring to the First Amendment.
The UK doesn't subscribe to the Bill of Rights, and in the UK we do not strictly speaking have any right to a freedom of speech, we have a liberty of speech, meaning what isn't condemned is allowed. It is a fine difference but a major one.

Thus, the BBC is perfectly fine to advocate censorship as it's a political idea that's quite popular to an extent in Britain. Freedom of Speech sounds great in theory, however in practice you get abuse of it, in Britain we can stop abuse, in America you cannot, simply put.
The British doesn't have the same "FUCK YOU I CAN SAY WHAT I FUCKING WANT" attitude towards free speech that some Americans abuse.


The Internet is without national borders, true. But that doesn't mean it defaults to American values in regards to the Bill of Rights.
Well yes, but the angle they are taking this this particular debate it that more censorship on the internet is a good thing. I take issue with the way their documentary is put together, they back very little up, and do not represent the internet community in a realistic way. 

*One example of the skewed nature of this documentary happens when they ask a "troll" some questions face to face, he gives his answers and leaves and immediately they voice over saying he sent a letter the next day saying the opposite of what he said in the interview. 

No picture, no proof, just that one of several examples.
I'm one of those who believes that the term "free speech" is misguided if it *is* referring to the First Amendment.
[Case in point.](http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2012/mar/18/arrest-racist-remarks-twitter-fabrice-muamba)  As an American it absolutely baffles me that there are liberal democracies where you can get arrested for using a slur on twitter.
Im from England, so I get what you are saying. But if start censoring something, there is no telling what we can really lose from the internet. Everywhere you go in England you are being watched by CCTV. Makes you frightened to accidentally commit a crime, or be mistaken for doing one. If the internet turned into something like that it would lose its soul, so to speak. 

I read on Reddit the other day that one company was offered a chance to buy the internet. Maybe somebody else could link that because I cant find it. But if the internet was privatised it would be the same. Comments would be taken down left right and centre. you wouldn't be able to trust what you see because you know other people are editing, and removing and changing stuff to make it appear how they think it should appear