Title: What if social media platforms would be held legally responsible for the spread of misinformation and fake news? Does it violate freedom of speech and place an excessive burden on these platforms?

Post:


Top Comments:
Social media platforms would disappear very quickly. There's simply no way for them to moderate the billions of posts that get posted every day.
It makes far more sense to go after the writer than it does to punish the wall it was written on.
When one gains the power to dictate what is misinformation, this power can be used to silence any opposition to your agenda.
Legal is decided by government and government is often steered by big business.
I don’t want big business imposing on my freedom of speech through successful lobbying.
I think that some people don't realize that some crazy notions, some far left(or right) idea may be "proven" wrong by popular or conventional methods... Only to be validated years later by a small minority that believed it was right. Could be just one crackpot...but if we censor that one crackpot's voice... We could be completely dismissing a crazy discovery. 

Censorship won't solve the problem. Sheeple are sheeple. Teaching the ability to think critically is the only solution.
Who will perfectly decide what misinformation is?  Most of what we were told during COVID, including by government officials and medical experts turned out to be false (that vaccines will prevent you from getting COVID, that they’ll prevent you from spreading COVID to others, that masks stop the spread of COVID, that COVID spreads on surfaces so wipe down your groceries, that COVID is an enormous threat to children, so sending kids back to school is like signing their death warrants, etc.). Many, many people were silenced on social media for speaking the truth, while those lies were propagated and encouraged by Silicon Valley and the mass media. It was completely backward. It’s far far better to allow free speech and counter speech with more speech and data.
Sounds like a great idea but I can't think of anyone I'd like to put in charge of deciding what is and isn't misinformation.