Title: Why are some Sanders supporters on social media so enthusiastic?

Post:
Very few would disagree with the notion that Sanders enjoys enthusiastic support on social media and internet forums. Some of his supporters are almost militant, or as close to militant as you can get online. There's a certain level of desperation with these groups, a level of desperation that would only come from a make-it-or-break-it primary. Where does this sentiment come from?

From my perspective, Sanders is far from a once in a lifetime candidate. There is growing support for anti-corporatist and left-wing ideas in this country, so I suspect there will be plenty of Sanders-like candidates 4 or 8 years from now. So I suppose I just don't understand the desperation. 4 or 8 years of Clinton just doesn't sound scary to me. Why do we need someone like Sanders immediately?

Top Comments:
His militant social-media supporters are really turning me off, although I try not to hold their actions against him personally.  In particular I find some of my friends' constant attacks against Hilary to be very distasteful, she's a compromise candidate compared to Bernie but far from the anti-christ they've painted her to be... she's been a moderate progressive all her life and has better experience than Bernie IMHO, he's only had to win elections in one oddball New England super-liberal state while she's battled out the political reality of running for Senator in NY and I like her Secretary of State experience when it comes to foreign policy, I think she'll be the stronger of the two.

That aside, to your main question, Bernie's a pretty clear breath of fresh air.  He's been able to vote his conscience a lot more, knowing that he won't lose votes in VT because of it, so his record is a lot cleaner.  He's run a very positive campaign (at least publicly) without going negative, and people really respond enthusiastically to that.  When campaigns turn negative the public tends to begin to dislike both sides.  And third, he really strikes a chord with voters who feel disenfranchised with Wall St, which includes a vast majority of the demographic that's active on social media.  (As a banker myself I find his economic positions vastly oversimplified personally, but when has oversimplifying a topic that people are angry about ever worked against a candidate?  A good catch-phrase is all you need if people are upset enough.)  And fourth, he's somebody different.  Hillary is a woman, but she's still a Clinton and very much a WASP.  Bernie has a completely different persona than any previous major candidate for POTUS, we've never even come close to electing a straight-talking New York Jew.  Hell, we've only ever had one POTUS identify as Catholic, every single other one has at least claimed to be Protestant.    People are tired of the same old thing and Bernie is different.
First time voters, still inexperienced on how politics work and thinking they'll change the world and get everything they want, right away. Compromise and slow advance is the way the government works in any civilized country, but for them the word compromise means sellout. Ironically, that attitude is self-defeating in politics: someone who works that way will never get anything done, even if elected president.

I can't fault young voters for being enthusiastic, but I have to say that the absolutistic and intolerant thinking I'm seeing online kind of concerns me. This attitude of anyone who doesn't agree with me on everything is despicable beyond contempt. I hope that for those who reason that way this attitude will get tempered with time. I would not want to live in a society where that attitude prevails.
Sander's supporters trend younger. Younger people are more social media savvy. Younger people may have only seen one or two presidential cycles during their political lifetimes. Therefore when an extreme candidate appears that shares a good portion of their views, they 1) post about him 2) react negatively to perceived slights. 

So many Sanders supporters seem to think that Sec. Clinton is the Anti-Christ and that Sen. Sanders is the harbinger of truth and justice. Many of them seemingly cannot understand that Clinton, while far from ideal, is not the monster that Republicans have tried to paint her as. 

I think though, the main reason so many young people are so loudly enthusiastic on social media about Sen. Sanders is because they lack inhibition when it comes to understanding how their political views may rub off on others. Older people on the other hand, may not want to turn off friends and family by loudly expressing their political views. 

Additionally, for many Sanders supporters its their first foray into politics (or maybe they supported Obama in 2012 but does that really count? He was the only progressive choice). So they're just excited to have someone they support and they want to let the whole world know. 

That said, however, I think the loudest people (atleast on my facebook feed) are the Trumpets. I've deleted most of them (why would I want to be friends with racists) but Trumpets seem to almost be convinced they're in an existential struggle for the existence of american "culture" (read: Whiteness). So they're pretty noisy. Even if often they struggle to string together a sentence in a coherent way.  
I'm an older than Reddit demographic. I'm on Facebook for professional reasons, but don't go there often (ugh). I was invited by a friend IRL to join a private group that supports HRC, because if any of us happens to post anything about her, we get attacked me attempted to be drawn into arguments by otherwise rational people. Far more By Sanders supporters than GOP supporters. I don't have the time for that.

I would imagine there are many private groups supporting her, and people like me.
Young and socially ignorant or embalmed in the echo chamber. Look at the same thing on social media with older Trump supporters.

I look at that and say "oh God, I would never say that in public" but maybe I care too much about what people think about me.
Most of us are excited to see a candidate we agree with this much doing this well.  Makes us actually have hope for the coming years, and when we're looking down the barrel of Trump/Clinton every bit of hope you can get is valuable.

If nothing else, by continuing to work hard I meet more people and build more relationships that can be used in later campaigns.
 I'm not exactly going "crazy" on social media, but I do post things every once in awhile--which is rare for me. Bernie really is my ideal candidate. I find him trust worthy, I approve of a large majority of his voting record, and I think his values align more with mine than any other candidate I have seen. I honestly do think it's rare to find a candidate with those qualities, and the way he has funded his campaign is unprecedented in our political history. I think he will put in motion the changes that I want to see, so that maybe my future children will have (what I believe to be) a brighter future. Im willing to make sacrifices in order to make that happen for the next generation. Also, I don't have a lot of faith in Hillary. I wasn't a fan of a lot of her choices when it came to international relations. I'm weary of the possibility that another public scandal (true or false) will pop up if she gets the nomination and give Trump an even bigger chance of winning. Don't get me wrong, I'll vote for her if I have to because I do believe she is better fit than Cruz or Trump. I just won't be as happy about it. I would be PROUD to have Sanders as a president. I would have a lot of hope that the things that matter most to me could change for the better. And I do think that isn't something that happens very often in presidential elections--most of the time I end up compromising for a candidate. 