Title: Free Speech and Freedom of The Press. Helpful or harmful to our civic society?

Post:
In the age of mass broadcasting and social media, do we need to update our laws as it pertains to these enshrined rights? 

People are constantly lamenting media bias and most reasonable people will agree that misinformation is rampant and harmful.

Changes in technology has made it possible for just about anyone to propagate lies and disseminate propaganda to divide populations, confuse the public, and radicalize the vulnerable.

Do we need laws to curtail "free speech" and control what media outlets publish?

Top Comments:
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review.
* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
It's a sad commentary on the modern world that we even have to ask this question.  The answer is no, we do not need laws to curtail free speech.  As the saying goes the road to hell is paved with good intentions.
Our civic society doesn't exist without these rights.  Propaganda and biased information has always been a thing.  Mass broadcasting has existed as long as radios have.  The mass broadcasting of radios led to many of the same things we see today.  We're certainly in a new age and the messages reach a lot more people, but as time goes on, societies and individuals build up a a sort of bullshit sensor.  We're already seeing the free market react to these problems with products like [Biasly](https://www.biasly.com) that read news with AI to determine bias in writing.
When given the option to restrict what people can do or empower them, always go with empowering them.

Have better civics education and information literacy in K-12 and college. Make it easier to verify facts from reliable sources. Counter bad speech with more speech.

Is this approach perfect? No. Is it guaranteed to work? No. But, it's incumbent on us to try rather than to attempt to solve a problem by taking away people's rights. People shouldn't lose rights because we're falling down on the job.
I'm not sure misinformation is any worse than it has been. That seems like an important premise that needs to be shown rather than merely assumed.

As for free speech: if people are truly to self-govern, they need the unfettered right to consider and advocate for their positions. If that means misinformation to some degree is inevitable, so be it.
I'm not sure I buy the idea that misinformation is any worse today that it was historically.  I mean, fake news caused the French Revolution.  

The bigger problem today is bad-faith news reporting.  You don't have to make up lies to push an agenda.  Just look at fox news.  I don't think anything that they publish is actually *false*, but it's cherry-picked, one-sided, lacks context, or otherwise just pushes an agenda (The left wing equivalent is not MSNBC, but r politics).  That's obviously bad, but it's really hard to regulate.  One could point to the old fairness doctrine, but that was so easy to weaponize that it probably did more harm than good.  Imagine if news channels were required to present "both sides" of 2020 election fraud.  

I'm not sure that there's any legal fix for this.  We need a cultural remedy.  People need to start getting their news from multiple independent sources.
"Do we need laws to curtail "free speech" and control what media outlets publish?"

Nazi Germany tried limiting Free Speech:  [Hitler's Radio](https://transdiffusion.org/2008/01/07/hitlers_radio/)

How did that work out?
No, only laws that education is open and unrestrictive to all forms of knowledge never to be banned, burned or rejected for which media bias can be curbed or possibly rendered irrelevant by the participants.
The issue is not a diversity ideas and therefore the solution is not idea censorship. The issue is an authoritarian information ecosystem, meaning that a small group of people has much more power over information flow. The cause of the this is a standard money driven free market information ecosystem. Finding a way to balance out the money involved in the information market will help our issue with authoritarianism and deception.