Title: Germany's Justice Minister says Facebook should be treated like a media company rather than a technology platform, suggesting he favors moves to make social media groups criminally liable for failing to remove hate speech

Post:


Top Comments:
This isn't the only problem Facebook has.  Their continuing usage of false metrics, algorithmic editors, etc.  This is only the beginning of Facebook's troubles.
This solution is worse than the problem it's trying to address. What about when German Trump gets into power and wants to get rid of "false" news articles about him? Controlling the media is a hallmark of totalitarianism. Plus people are reading fake news because they want to have their biases confirmed. If you give them 'fair news' they won't read it.
Wow this is dangerous. Who gets to decide what is or is not "hate speech". If this passed the government could easily use this to silence any opposition. 
The problem with that strategy is that unlike traditional media companies, which have mostly staff generated content, and have editorial staff able to review literally 100% of content (staff generated, or otherwise) before publishing it, Facebook has mostly user-generated content, and depends on a small amount of staff unable to view all content.

Regulating both the same way would add a burden to Facebook to hire enormous amounts of staff to review all user comments, a task they are not already doing, or to make and maintain amazing bots to perform this task, whereas with traditional media companies you're just requiring the staff writers and editors who are already going over all content to not commit libel during the tasks they are already performing.

Adding huge numbers of tasks, versus mild modification of tasks already performed.
The Germans dont have to request pages from Facebook.  They dont get FB unless they request FB. If you didnt want FB, you shouldnt have requested FB.  Entire Problem Solved.
free speech >> hate speech

i may not agree with what you say, but i will defend your ability to say it despite our new german overlords