Title: How open are you to the possibility that your political beliefs could be wrong or unpopular? If that could be proven, how would that change your political behavior?

Post:
In 2010, Matt Yglesias coined the term "the Pundit's Fallacy" to describe "the belief that what a politician needs to do to improve his or her political standing is do what the pundit wants substantively".

Ever since the election, the Pundit's Fallacy seems to have entirely taken over the discourse as the Democrats as a party try to figure out what to do next. As the full extent of the data from the election has yet to be examined and given shape yet for the public to consider, many people are clinging to whatever incomplete data they have to make the argument that the Democrats lost because they failed to embrace... whatever said pundit's existing beliefs about politics were. Moderates have been pointing to the unpopular social positions the Democrats as a party are associated with and advocating for more strident repudiations of them. Liberals point to the wave of anti-incumbency that has swept the world this year, or to the role of voters' media diets influencing their perceptions of the economy and policy toward negativity, or to Harris only having around 100 days to take over the campaign after Biden stepped down. Leftists point to the party not taking a stronger stance on the war in Gaza, or the perception that the party moved to the Right by embracing the Cheneys as campaign surrogates, or not having more ambitious Left-wing policy plans all costing the campaign support. The thing is, there is _some_ amount of evidence for all of these positions, some stronger and some weaker than others, and therefore the discourse is drowning in pundits with absolute confidence that that means their position is correct and that the key to success is to do what they already wanted us to do. 

But what if it isn't? In politics there are very few definitive answers one way or another. We calibrate our beliefs based on our biases, our morality, our understanding of reality, our understanding of our communities, our experiences, but those are all subject to flaws in human psychology. Polls can be wrong, manipulated, gamed to produce a specific answer. Studies can be politically motivated, biased or the evidence could actually be much weaker than presented. Echo chambers can create the impression that a belief is more widespread than it actually is. Things we consider to be common sense can have blind spots from our own personal ignorance. It is easier to grapple with cognitive dissonance by rejecting evidence that we don't like than integrating it into our understanding.

Whatever your beliefs are- about the election, about the support for the UHC CEO assassination and the public's opinions on private vs public health insurance, about trans people in sports and trans healthcare, about whether your party needs to moderate their beliefs or become more extreme, about whatever issues you strongly care about- how sure are you that they are true? What if there was some kind of irrefutable evidence handed down from an omniscient divine source that could definitively refute it? How would that change your political strategy to learn that a political position you hold was just factually wrong, or that your political beliefs that you fight for are an extreme minority?

Top Comments:
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review.
* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I am open to the concept of an approach to one of my political beliefs being incorrect - Action A leads to Result B, sort of thing. 

However, there is one fundamental flaw with the premise  - ultimately, your political beliefs shouldn’t be rooted in specific action but rather in a fundamental moral and worldview. 

Take a stance - let’s say “I support lower taxes” - that by itself is not really a political belief. We have to dig deeper - into the why of that stance. 

And once you’ve boiled down your beliefs to your worldview, then you can actually examine them properly.  Personally, I’m a big believer in the kind of moral thinking of John Stuart Mill, the Harm Principle, and utilitarianism overall. 

My political beliefs stem to two basic questions - how many people are helped by this policy? How many people are hurt by it? 

We can further explore type of hurt, permanency, and other questions that make it more complicated, but ultimately, what that means for me is “I believe in policy action that hurts the least amount of people.” 

That is my core fundamental political belief. Which, for me, is unchangeable. Stances and approaches change, sure - but those cornerstones, when reasoned down to the why, are bedrock.
Very open, that’s why I’m on this subreddit and learning more about others perspectives. 

I don’t view my core beliefs as political. I believe that generally, we are better together than we are separate. I believe that generally, people should be able to do their own thing. I believe that generally, people are doing their best to help those closest to them. I believe that generally, we have a responsibility to continuously improve. 

These views will put me on a political spectrum but I didn’t get to my beliefs from politics, I got to politics from my beliefs. 

In politics, I support Medicare for All. Why? Because people should be able to do their own thing.  Tying health care to salaried employment traps people in roles that inefficient for the worker, for the company, and for society. That’s a capitalist / economic backing to my political stance. If it turns out that Medicare for All is wrong, or inefficient, or there’s some new tech that makes insurance obsolete I’m happy to pivot because a Medicare for All isn’t a belief. It’s a political stance.
As someone with more progressive views, I think progressives are some of the worst with this. Most think that progressive ideas are super popular (some ideas are, but a full progressive agenda is definitely not) and some can be just as bad as the Freedom Caucus type of people with wanting to shove their beliefs down everyone’s throats. Progressives can be just as willing to refuse to compromise (or vote, for that matter) because there is disagreement over a single issue. You would be hard pressed to find anybody who agrees with you completely on *every single issue*, so this attitude has GOT to go (on both sides of the aisle). It’s gotten us to the point where we have a President and Vice President incoming next month who have both praised Viktor Orban, and praising a wannabe dictator for doing things that are illegal per the laws of their country should be terrifying, but for some reason, people treat it like it’s a joke.
The Great Recession changed my political beliefs (see username) because it turned out most of my self-proclaimed conservative acquaintances had life styles that depended on very risky financial actions like taking out a second mortgage for vacations or to send a kid to a fancy private school. Of course, then they were crying for gov't assistance. Then the Tea Party/MAGA folks really started advocating policies with long-term adverse effects. Combine that with the activist "conservative" (actually myth-loving) school board candidates who were pushing falsehoods to educate kids and I couldn't stay a Republican.
I am open to my beliefs being wrong and unpopular. If it were proven to me, it wouldn’t change my political behavior without someone being able to convince such a change is morally justified. When it pertains to very specific areas of policy I have no real strong feelings about even if I have opinions, I am open to changing my views if it benefits things I see as more important political gains. 

However, there’s a flaw in your question. Political beliefs are opinions not facts. Therefore, how do you qualify something as wrong and based on what? Even when it’s a question of morality, people have different morals and weight them differently. As far as popularity goes, there is a problem with people being unable to disaggregate the message from the messenger. Democrat policy preferences poll as more popular than democrats themselves. Republican policies commonly poll much less popular than the party itself does.

Our political system has devolved into pure tribalism and policy itself is completely divorced from politics. Democrats offer specific solutions to problems and try to enact it via policy. They are terrible at the politics part. Republicans don’t seem to have much concrete policy other than tax cuts for the rich and corporations yet somehow win over the working class. That’s because they are good at politics and tapping into emotions.
Very well thought out and written.  

My answer is the same as always and that is data based research and empirical studies.  

Purely anecdotal and a moderate, I have been for ages been going, “all I want is universal healthcare.”  

I was in a small camp pressuring representatives to put Medicare for all up for a vote during COVID.  Reps said it wasn’t time and it was such bullshit.  They are all corrupt imo.
I've been on the far left all my life. 

There have been many times when I have questioned this. I go in far-right spaces all the time. I read their media, I read their message boards. 

I see a therapist every week. Many times I have asked my therapist if I'm wrong. I've gone through many thought experiments. 

I see Nazis in the streets, waving flags, and I think to myself " what if they are right, and I'm wrong? What if those on the right, telling me ' get mental help, liberal' are right, and I need to address this in therapy, because I want to hurt these Nazis waving these flags, and this impulse might be wrong?"

And every single time, I do reading. I read Jordan Peterson, I listen to Steve Bannon's podcast, I read Republican policies about trickle-down economics and labor laws. 

I read these things and listen to these things with an open mind, with the assumption that I am wrong. 

Keep in mind that I was raised not just by Reagan Republicans, but Nixon Republicans. My father was the chairman of our local Republican party for years. 

Over the years, my parents left the Republican party and now they are Democrats. They feel that the Republican party abandoned their principles. 

And again, I consider that maybe my liberal positions are completely wrong. That feeding the poor is wrong. That if children don't get food in schools, that's a good thing because they don't deserve it And it will teach their parents to get jobs. Make abortion completely illegal, and that will really teach people not to have sex. I really try hard to see that point of view. 

And then I see the harsh reality. For example, I look at the Kansas experiment where they went full Brownback. Why didn't it work? Why didn't those conservative policies work? 

Why didn't trickle down economics work? 

Why do all these decades of data show America's economy prospering under Democratic presidents, and tanking under Republican presidents? 

The more I learn, from unbiased sources, the harder it is for me to uphold Republican and conservative positions. 

The more I talk to Republicans and try to find facts that uphold their beliefs, the harder it gets. There's a whole lot of " do your own research," but when I ask them for their sources I don't get them. And when I push, I either get blocked or ridiculed. I don't get that from the Democratic side. I actually do get sources from them. They actually are willing to debate. 

That's my experience.
I recognize that there’s a lot about the political world that I don’t understand, and a lot happens that we’ll never know about. But my core values about what it means to be a good person are solid. My political leaning is based on that. 

I like to believe I have a good bullshit detector. But, I’ve been wrong before and I will be wrong many times more. However, the core of how I make my decisions about who to vote for remains unwavering.
I don’t really care if my political beliefs are unpopular if I still have good reason to believe they are right.

As for my beliefs being wrong, I would need a lot of evidence. I’ve changed my mind on most of my political views in the past, but it took a lot of evidence and good arguments and time.