Title: The United States is requiring RT and Al Jazeera to report on foreign funding and control. Should this be required of press outlets?

Post:
The scandal over Russian influence campaigns on Facebook is now being used to make new requirements of not just social media sites but journalistic publications as well. RT and Al Jazeera are [being required](https://www.albawaba.com/news/us-seeks-keep-taps-al-jazeera-here-how-1174196) under the Foreign Agents Registration Act to to report on foreign funding and ownership. Is this a necessary protection against foreign influence campaigns, or a violation of press outlets' free speech rights?

Top Comments:
For foreign state funded and orchestrated enterprises, yes. Especially in cases where it can be reliably determined that state actors have editorial influence on the output of the outlet.
I can't see how it would be a violation of free speech anymore than forcing food companies to print nutritional information on their labeling is a violation of free speech. NPR and PBS have the same obligation. RT and Al Jazeera are owned by their respective states, their editorial staff are obligated to accommodate the agenda of their regime. 

There's a big difference between those organizations and Fox News. Much as I hate them, the Fox News staff don't take orders from Trump and have no legal obligation to the US Government. If anything they have undue influence OVER the US government, it's a completely different situation.
I think any organization that is responsible for the dissemination of news and the creation of news content should be held to a common standard whereby they must disclose financial interests held by foreign parties, or by any significant single group. 

We rely on those organizations to inform and provide a reasonably factual accounting of what's happening, and if the organization has a significant backer, foreign or domestic, it calls into question their neutrality on sensitive topics.

Fox News is a pretty blatant example, but no institution is completely above reproach.
I think a balance can be struck between anonymity and security in this case. All money/donations worth more than a certain amount should be reported, allowing private individuals to make private donations. But essentially ensuring that large entities with much more power to swing opinion should be reported. To prevent money flowing through fake people from corporations to news organizations, the news organizations should also report on basic statistics regarding the nationality/region of contributors.