Title: Mitt Romney is now under consideration for Secretary of State in the Trump administration and will reportedly be meeting with Trump on Sunday. Is Romney a good choice?

Post:
This is coming from Talking Points Memo and various reporters I follow on social media. After criticizing Trump so often and forcefully in the primaries, why would Romney want this job? Do you think Trump is serious about offering him the position?

Top Comments:
the dude is a level headed and smart man. That would be a very good move and will allay some of the fears that people have about trump that he doesn't know what he's doing
I never would have thought that seeing the name "Mitt Romney" would make me heave a massive sigh of relief.

If he wants it, by all means give it to him. We need all the sane people we can get.
Romney is actually an excellent pick.  

Secretary of State is the leader of our **diplomatic** corps, not a military position.  Bolton is actually qualified in that respect (didn't he actually advise Romney?), but he hates the UN and is a crazy hawk.  Romney is cool, collected, respectable, and intelligent.  

I would hope he would have similar success as Kerry, who is also a hawk and a cool character.  Romney would also be great in improving our image overseas and would *never* allow an embarrassment like the scheduling fiasco with P.M. Abe to happen again.  

God, if he picks Giuliani over Romney pray for us all.  
I know Mitt was super anti-Trump and I already see people trying to call him a hypocrite but I see it very differently.  Personally, I'd rather someone smart and level headed like Romney was in the administration where they can influence Trump and try to curb his worst impulses.  If people stand on principle and refuse to work with him we'll end up with the worst people running the major agencies.
There's a few reasons he would want it. Namely, it would allow him to check and balance Trump. Obviously he can't sell Trump on that, he'll have to sell him on his qualifications. 

Ultimately I think he's a good choice, given the other candidates. He's a lot more measured than they are. If Trump puts his ego aside and appoints him that is great news for two reasons: 1) shows he'll hire/appoint people he doesn't necessarily agree with or like if they're the best choice, and 2) the checks and balance thing. 
Romney is the least horrifying person I've heard as being suggested for Trump's administration.

I never thought I'd want to see Romney set foot in the White House, but here we are.


Ugh, Jesus, what a rough spot.

On one hand, Romney himself warned that Trump could bring a tide of "trickle down racism" to the country, so it seems like a betrayal to collaborate with, and thus enable, Trump.

On the other hand, even if Mitt still feels exactly the same way about Trump now, *somebody* is going to become SoS no matter what, so taking that position means whoever is next in line probably wont, and knowing Trump, whoever is next in line is probably worse than Mitt.
Romney might want the job to prevent Trump from causing disaster.

Trump might be serious about offering him the position to get Romney to kiss the ring. 

Please!  Romney would stave off foreign policy disaster, reassure allies, and would be my favorite Mormon politician again.  
This is a great move on many levels. This has the potential to:

* Unify the republican party even more (and perhaps bring over more moderates)
* Show that Trump is a "bigger" man--willing to put good policy over personal qualms
* Give Trump's diplomacy legitimacy and assuage international fears, and
* Ensure that one of Trump's fiercest critics is in the fold.

All of this, however, *depends on Trump being able to control Romney*. A big if... 