Title: Should Censorship on Social Media Be Considered a 1st Amendment Issue?

Post:
I have noticed some very contradictory stances by both Liberals and Conservatives on the issue of social media censorship. In the famous 2010 Supreme Court case Citizens United, it was determined that corporations are protected by the 1st Amendment. This decision has been generally criticized by the left but applauded by the right. 

These positions are seemingly reversed in the recent debates over social media with the right claiming the censorship of right wing voices on social media violates their own 1st Amendment right. Contrarily, the left seems to applaud the actions by these social media giants and point to the 1st amendment rights by these corporations as defense for their actions.

Can these views be reconciled and do you believe Citizen’s United should provide social media with the ability to censor any voices arbitrarily?

Top Comments:
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review.
* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
No because the first amendment doesn’t apply to private companies. Combine that with the fact you agreed to a certain set of rules, it doesn’t.

the first amendment, like most of the constitution, only applies to the government
> These positions are seemingly reversed in the recent debates over social media with the right claiming the censorship of right wing voices on social media violates their own 1st Amendment right.

I'm just going to start this discussion by saying the First Amendment applies to the government infringing on your rights.

Social media companies are permitted to remove users who violate their terms of service.

Unless you're arguing that the the removals over some ToS violations are protected speech that the government should step in to stop the social media companies from doing?
Let's say we were to expand first amendment privileges, and require everyone, at all times, to tolerate all speech said anywhere.

I set up an internet message board. Can I ban people for violating rules? Can I ban people from a subreddit?

I have a group chat with friends. If one of them says something I don't like, can I block them? Or do I have to tolerate their speech coming to my phone?

If the KKK start burning a cross in my yard, are they entitled to that form of expression? Or can I kick them off my lawn?

If I own a newspaper, do I have to let any bum who walks in put whatever they want in it?

If I'm making a TV show and an actor starts a racist rant live on air, do I have to continue filming? Or can I fire him?

We don't require people to tolerate other people's speech because it leads to ridiculous situations where people have to give up their own liberty in order to let morons spout their BS on our property, in publications we own. I have the right to be associated with people and ideas I want, and no others. I do not have to be forced to listen to other people.
I'm still laughing that conservatives are complaining about websites picking favorites after they killed net neutrality.

The debate at the time only applies to ISPs, but if ISPs were declared common carriers, then it would have been easy to declare social media the same, and we wouldn't be having this conversation.
I think this is a good discussion. Personally I think the hypocrisy might come from both sides because

1. The people with the power to discriminate are liberals who typically are against discrimination.
2. Social media is run by private companies which is supposed to be legal under the 1st Amendment

I could see someone being consistent if they both said that social media should be able to discriminate but also extended that to other institutions in society. (Liberals would disagree on the other institutions part) Or they say that social media should be restricted but also were up for restricting other parts of society. (Conservatives would disagree with restricting other parts of society)

Personally I don't use SM too much and am more in the libertarian let them go ahead and do it camp. Allow the companies to be discriminatory but also allow other parts of society to do what they want.
*Citizens United* was specifically about campaign finance, so the two issues aren’t really related.

In this case, there are no rules stopping Twitter, Facebook etc. from arbitrarily flagging or blocking whatever content they want. A First Amendment issue would arise if the government tried to censor or block (e.g.) a Twitter competitor, if one were created in response to this situation.

Maybe the average American conservative needs to spend more time in countries that actually use censorship against their citizens on the internet (like the PRC, with its [Great Firewall](https://en.greatfire.org/analyzer)), if they need a better understanding of what the First Amendment’s real purpose is.
It depends on the context, speech shouldn't be regulated unless it's actually violating the law, I dont care about "hate speech" either in this context. But on the other hand, it is a private company, and if the government can meddle in one company, they can meddle in another. The right chears when the left gets stomped, and the left cheers when the right gets stomped, might be best for the government to just leave it to the people to figure out.

[Edit] thanks reddit with the selective auto correct
Are social media companies a platform with no/little responsibility for what it's users post, or are they a publisher who cultivates what is posted? I think they need to pick one and be consistent.
This is hundred percent a first amendment issue. I cant have a store and not let black people shop there or white people or gay people. But in a virtual public space on a profile created by an individual they suddenly can’t share links or express themselves if it doesn’t match with the opinion of others. It is criminal what these tech companies are doing. Companies cannot deny you your rights same as other individuals and governments. Especially if corporations are people my friends. Lol. It’s very sad to see so called liberals and progressives bastardize those labels with such expedient and backward thinking. Trump has truly driven many mad.