Title: Political abuse on X is a global, widespread, and cross-partisan phenomenon, suggests new study | New study suggests that individuals on social media platform, ‘X’, who deviate from their party norms are quickly treated as if they were a political enemy. 

Post:


Top Comments:
I found twitter to be extremely toxic and deleted my account in 2019.  I can’t imagine it’s any better under Musk.  I’ve seen news articles about the promotion of misinformation.  I don’t know why anyone would use it.
There are really only 2 modes of action that remain on X/Twitter.  
  
1.  You can be a political journalist who drops a new bit of breaking detail that everyone can get excited about.  
2.  You can be a screaming banshee from one side or the other who gets really upset about stuff.

There's no longer any careful or considered analysis, or any sort of thought leadership.  Most of the clever people who were worth following have fled.  You're left with an anarchic cesspit.  Maybe that's what some people want.  It's certainly the antithesis of constructive societal discourse.
the same could be said of reddit i'm on the left but damn if i say something someone on the right would say i could be banned or downvoted and ostracized
Well, I mean…Reddit is the same. If not worse.

Reddit actually bans several people daily for very minor infractions that don’t fit moderators PoV.
Phenomenon? Actually, it shouldn't be surprising with the type of language that's being influenced by generative content with no guard rails. Guard rails that are being exploited by plausible fascist and divisive ideologies that are meant to intentionally stretch and exploit psychologically deviant behavior. It doesn't matter who is lib or his Maga, or who is republican or democrat, or who's right or left. The impact is the same.

As long as the ideological psychology at the root of any individual can be exploited with social media, its effect can be used to induce and influence fear and divisiveness with subtlety. And vice versa with positive influential associations. Mass marketing and social media can be architected and scaled up for exploitation the same way it could for constructive unifying ideologies. It can be any ideological powerhouse but with great risk. Dangerous in our time. I think Facebook and our social media will start to learn this very important humanistic lesson soon with the results they are looking for.

I think even Thomas Anderson was in the right to hunker down and leave it be. Left probably understanding how invasive it would be and the abuse that would follow without measurable checks and balances done in coordinated stages. Humans aren't meant for "move fast and break things" when it comes to collective thoughts and beliefs.
Its just worse than its ever been because the worst fucking people, scum of the earth shitbags dont get punished for saying the most sexist and racist shit. 

Elon bought it and made it a right wing racist echo chamber.