Title: Some on social media see suspect in UnitedHealthcare CEO killing as a folk hero — “What’s disturbing about this is it’s mainstream”: NCRI senior adviser

Post:


Top Comments:
I like the armed and dangerous warnings issued by media outlets and the police.  Thanks Fox/CNN/NYPD, but something tells me this guy is going to walk on by me without a glance.
Oh, no! Anyways...

Plenty of people are killed in NYC, why should we care any more about this guy?

Oh wait, he was rich? Well that changes everything.
This article, along with many others, calls Brian Thompson’s killing an assassination. I’m gonna paraphrase and modify an old Chris Rock quote to reply:

Brian Thompson didn’t get assassinated, Martin Luther King, Abraham Lincoln, JFK and Malcolm X were assassinated. Brian Thompson—that n*gga got shot!
You know there's only so much you can push people until they break. 

America has seen incredible wealth, improvements to quality of life, purchasing power...  But the last 30 years have been backsliding. The workers are not seeing real wage increases but the upper class is. Pair that with skyrocketing costs healthcare that's also gatekept by insurance companies and you start to see desperation in people again. 

Reap what you sow...
It’s an interesting test case in watching the mainstream media manipulate public opinion. Not sure they’ll manage it this time.
What's disturbing to me is that for some reason this CEO met some unwritten criteria that triggers significantly more money being thrown at solving the crime.  If the guy murdered was a crime boss or homeless, the cops and FBI likely wouldn't care at all.  So what's the threshold?  Is it only CEOs of pubiclly traded companies?  I mean I guess not if it were Charles Koch, I'm sure we'd see a similar law enforcement response.  Is it just for dudes with a net worth over $100 million?   What policy grants investigative bodies the ability to drop everything to try and find the killer of just this one guy?  Aren't there other murders that need to be solved?