Title: Social Media and freedom of speech.

Post:
The recent removals of [Alex Jones, Louis Farrakhan, Milo Yiannopoulos, Paul Joseph Watson, and Laura Loomer from Facebook] (https://www.theverge.com/2019/5/2/18526964/facebook-ban-alex-jones-laura-loomer-milo-louis-farrakhan) have sparked controversy over whether social media sites should be able to regulate speech. 

[Many argue] (https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/05/technology/lawmakers-facebook-twitter-foreign-influence-hearing.html) [that there is a bias] (https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/2019/04/10/ted-cruz-threatens-regulate-facebook-twitter-over-alleged-bias/3423095002/) [against conservatives] (https://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-lashes-out-against-social-media-sites-after-facebook-ban/) on social media platforms, and that these companies exclusively ban those with right-wing viewpoints.

In addition, some claim that this act was a violation of free speech, and [protests] (https://abc7news.com/politics/conservatives-protest-facebook-twitter-in-front-of-sf-city-hall/5284381/) have started in response. 


[Others argue that because the First Amendment does not apply to these platforms,] (https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2018/mar/09/google-facebook-first-amendment-protections) as they are private entities, Facebook and other sites are well within their rights to ban users that they consider to be extremists.

The questions I want to ask are:


* Is this recent string of bans justified?

* Do you think these platforms have a bias against conservatives? 

* Are these bans effective? 

* Should we expand the reach of the First Amendment?

Top Comments:
Let me reframe the question:

Should a person be allowed to break the rules of a platform because of their political leaning? Alex Jones was not banned because he is a conservative, Alex Jones was banned because he directed harassment towards private citizens (who had gone through a horrific incident that should befall nobody). *NOT* banning him would show bias, which is what Twitter is doing with the Trump situation.
“Expanding the reach of the first amendment” would be *violating* the first amendment. The government does not own Facebook and has no power to decide what it does or does not allow.

If you’ve got a problem with Facebook’s community guidelines, take it up with Facebook. If they don’t care, you can go make your own website. This is not a problem for the government to solve.
It's an issue of personal responsibility.  Boomers need to somehow understand - however difficult it may be - that just because their kids/relatives are not clicking "like" on their "Obama is a monkey" memes and unfriending them, they are not being "censored".
There may be a bias against conservatives, but perhaps conservatives should worry more about their head-on collision with white supremacy.
Facebook and other internet platforms (web hosting, payment processing) are so immensely powerful that, despite being non-government entities, they nonetheless hold the keys to free speech. Censorship is concerning. Do you really want Zuckerberg to decide who gets a voice and who doesn't?

While Facebook isn't Congress and the First Amendment applies only to Congress, Facebook and other internet services have grown to such prominence that your ability to speak is governed by these companies.

Imagine its the 1780's. You want to speak your ideas. How do you do it? You print up and distribute pamphlets, of course. The framers were very well familiar with this. But imagine if every printing press was owned by the same company, and this company didn't want you to speak. Imagine if every paper company was owned by the same company and it didn't want you to spread your ideas. How do you go about printing up pamphlets without a press and without paper? You could go and shout on the street corner, but even back in the 1780's that was not a very effective way to communicate.

The problem is monopoly power. The keys are held by very few companies or individuals. Only a few people need to decide to deplatform you and you've lost all practical ability to speak. Banned from Facebook and Twitter. Your website no longer works. Kicked off of Patreon. Paypal refuses to process donations to your cause. 

Just a handful of companies need to decide to deplatform you and suddenly you no longer exist. You've been erased. Your speech is gone. Your business or organization is gone. Your money is gone. You have no recourse. You're an un-person now. Thats the concerning part about allowing such massively powerful monopolistic companies to hold the keys to civil rights.
If you walked into any store and started screaming, acting like an ass, and harassing other customers the store would be well within their rights to throw you out, especially if their rules for behavior are clearly listed at the entrance. 
Let’s stop pretending that “conservatives” (if you can even call them that) are victims of unwarranted action. Nutjobs like Alex Jones or Laura Loomer just don’t know how to behave.
Funny that right wingers are the ones complaining that it's not fair for them to be excluded from Facebook. These are the same people who say that the capitalism and the market will naturally deliver us the best results and therefore we should avoid interfering with it because the market does the best job of allocating resources and providing goods/services exactly where they ought to be provided.

Well, folks, Facebook is a privately owned for-profit website that decided it would be in their best interest to ban these right wingers. I saw Paul Joseph Watson complaining that this is more than just a company choosing who to do business with - because while other social media platforms exist, Facebook is functionally a monopoly, with no other notable service out there providing the type of social networking they provide, or giving consumers the ability to interact with the very large and demographically diverse userbase of Facebook, many of whom are not on other platforms like Twitter or Instagram.

So, in summary, the free market forces of capitalism has not lead to resources being allocated for another social media service that would be seen as an equivalent alternative to Facebook, and because of that, they want Facebook to behave like a public accommodation committed to providing equal access to service for all. 

Of course, no private for-profit business would agree to forfeit their right to choose who they associate and do business in order to make their company operate more like a government program that serves all citizens - or take on the burden of applying the principles of the First Amendment to their consumers' experience with their service as if that even makes sense. 

No company would choose to do these things because they're not the government and, and their goal is make profit, not fulfill some organizational objective in service to the public. The only way you could have Facebook be beholden to such a burden would be if you nationalized it. 

Socialism, folks! These clowns have always religiously worshiped capitalism and a hands off approach to markets, but the second capitalism's infallible ordering of things has no supplier willing to fulfill their demand for one particular service, they're demanding a blatant subversion of the way free market capitalism works in order to let them get the thing they want and aren't getting right now.

It's funny how the right vehemently opposed the healthcare reform legislation in 2010 that said the insurance industry could no longer just opt not to make any plans available for customers with pre-existing conditions. They said that those peoples' health coverage was not society's problem and this intrusion into the free market was a Stalin-esque government takeover of free enterprise. That was their response to a measure that keeps sick people from being terminally uninsured - not society's problem. But they get kicked off of Facebook and they think it's a matter of national importance that must be addressed by our society immediately. For fucks sake.
1.	The bans being “justified” or not is a discussion that makes as much sense as asking if Target is justified pulling a product off their shelves after the existence of it offends enough customers that keeping it there hurts the bottom line. These are not places of public discourse; they are commerce sites where consumer eyeballs are sold to marketers on which sometimes public discourse occurs. Sometimes it’s ass eating discourse, or dress color discourse, but it’s always about selling eyeballs to marketers. Any discussion that doesn’t accept this as the baseline going forward is naive and unproductive.
2.	The platforms have a bias against threats of violence and eliminationist rhetoric because those are big downers and bad for the goals of selling eyeballs to advertisers. That mainstream conservative rhetoric is playing footsie with that kind of language and ideology is a separate problem that those assholes need to work out among themselves, rather than trying to make it everybody else’s problem.
3.	Effective at what? They are effective at decreasing the influence and income of right wing figures. Milo is in heavy debt and begging for people to buy his shit to pay off those debts. Deplatforming is 100% effective at marginalizing people who make money being outrageous.
4.	hell no absolutely not
On your questions:

1. It's case-by-case.  Some of the bans seem more warranted than others.  However, a private firm doesn't really need a reason to ban someone.
2. Probably a bit.  Silicon valley (and friends in Seattle) are overwhelmingly liberal on any issue besides regulation of technology (where they actually are more anti-regulation than the average Republican donor).  The people designing these algorithms are clever enough to add in some subtle things that might help push things just a little how they want.
3. They seem to be in the short term good at silencing peoples' voices.  In the long run, we'll see.  I have some suspicion that it won't be effective after the initial shock.
4. No.  You cannot and should not compel business to host speech they don't want.  I don't think that a server, website, forum, or internet service provider should be compelled to relay content they find distasteful.

My big concern, and hope that websites will think twice about it is thus:

Society is already fracturing pretty badly along political fault lines.  Peoples' social circles are dividing politically, peoples' information sources are splitting, even peoples' geographical arrangements are self-segregating.  To me this is the most important and fundamental of problems facing the US, since it makes solving any other problems incredibly difficult.

If existing social media platforms "deplatform" too many conservative figures, you might simply see social media have more conservative-friendly sites emerge and split our social media into two political halves, maybe even into two broader internet ecosystems completely.  Anything that fractures the country further seems like a major threat to me.  I don't think the government should regulate this, but I hope that social media platforms take their currently powerful position in society seriously and responsibly so that something like that doesn't happen.

>* Is this recent string of bans justified?

Yes. The rules are clearly outlined and not hard to follow. 

>* Do you think these platforms have a bias against conservatives? 

Absolutely not. If anything, they're biased in favor of conservatives because they whine and work the refs. Facebook has the fucking Daily Caller doing fact checks for them, Trump is somehow still allowed on Twitter despite constant rule breaking, and Facebook brought in the Heritage Foundation to study "bias". 

>* Are these bans effective? 

Yes. That Milo weirdo basically got reduced to a panhandler. 

>* Should we expand the reach of the First Amendment?

Frankly that's up to conservatives in the courts. Alternatively maybe this will be the thing that makes conservatives support big government regulation.