Title: Will Trump’s recently announced policy positions have a significant impact on the election?

Post:
Recently, Trump has promised:

He will create a Bitcoin stockpile. Basically he says he will not sell the Bitcoin the US seizes from criminals. He stopped short of promising to buy Bitcoin as some other candidates did. Bitcoin holders were very enthusiastic about the proposal because a sell off of that much Bitcoin could decrease the price. It’s unclear how this would benefit anyone else. 

https://www.cnbc.com/amp/2024/07/27/trump-bitcoin-conference-harris.html

"Bitcoin stands for freedom, sovereignty and independence from government coercion and control," Trump said during his keynote speech.

At the same conference he said he’s going to increase electricity production to the point where we will be begging him to stop. 

“We will be creating so much electricity that you'll be saying, please, please, president, we don't want any more electricity. We can't stand it. You'll be begging me. No more electricity, sir. We have enough. We have enough.”

There are signs the new data centers driven by AI  and Bitcoin mining will place a strain on US energy supplies. Trump is officially hostile to this energy being clean or renewable energy, he’s repeatedly singled out wind energy as dangerous. 

https://www.politico.com/newsletters/power-switch/2024/07/17/why-trump-is-talking-about-your-electric-bill-00169041

But economists say Trump, who wants to cut taxes for fossil fuel producers and roll back federal support for renewable energy, would have little influence over power prices, especially in the short run.

“They could say we’re just going all in on fossil fuels and to hell with the carbon emissions. That would probably have some effect, but relatively small,” said Severin Borenstein, a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley.

He says he’s going to remove the tax seniors pay on Social Security. 

https://rollcall.com/2024/07/31/trump-pitches-repealing-tax-on-social-security-benefits/

The cost of fully exempting Social Security benefits from taxes could top $1.6 trillion over a decade, according to the Tax Foundation, a right-leaning think tank. The policy has some supporters on both sides of the aisle in Congress, but so far legislative proposals have failed to pick up momentum.

“SENIORS SHOULD NOT PAY TAX ON SOCIAL SECURITY!” Trump wrote Wednesday on his social media website, Truth Social.

So, do any of these seem like winners? Things that would move the needle?


Top Comments:
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review.
* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I'm not sure if any of these things will seriously move the needle because I'm not sure if anyone actually thinks he's going to do any of this so much as he's just regurgitating the last thing he heard.

He has never said a single thing about Bitcoin, then he goes to a crypto conference where presumably he got told he was great, and now he's saying this stuff.  In two weeks, I wouldn't be surprised if we never hear about it again.

Why we're still acting like he's a normal candidate with actual policy positions, I have no idea.
This will not move the needle much outside of the crypto and tech bros that were already going to vote for him. He’s a known liar that doesn’t keep campaign promises.

In 2016-2018 Trump said he was going to ban foreign lobbyists in elections. Pass an infrastructure bill. Release his taxes. Cut the number of tax brackets. Eliminate the carried interest loophole. Said he would call a special session of Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare. And more.

He did **NONE** of these things. You gotta be silly to think he would have a substantive crypto policy. His only major legislation he pushed through was the tax cuts that redistributed wealth to the top 1%.
>Basically he says he will not sell the Bitcoin the US seizes from criminals...."Bitcoin stands for freedom, sovereignty and independence from government coercion and control,"

I know crypto bros aren't going to think too deeply and hard about how silly their get rich quick scheme is... but it's still funny to see these two ideas follow each other.

>At the same conference he said he’s going to increase electricity production to the point where we will be begging him to stop.

>“We will be creating so much electricity that you'll be saying, please, please, president, we don't want any more electricity. We can't stand it. You'll be begging me. No more electricity, sir. We have enough. We have enough.”

This isn't policy, this is magical thinking.  He might as well promise to make everyone a millionaire.  I mean what's he got to lose?  "Vote for me and you'll be rich beyond your wildest dreams!"

>So, do any of these seem like winners? Things that would move the needle?

Maybe if he can convince people he has some semblance of how legislation works, but the people convinced of that are probably *already* his voters.

Is it infrastructure week again?
The crypto thing isn't about getting votes. Crypto Bros threw $10M against Katie Porter. They have something like $200M in various tech Super PACs. Trump wants that.
Trump's recently announced policy positions are things that sound great in soundbites, but are pretty awful in practice.

1\\ Bitcoin - US's greatest export is the USD, and the US economy collapses into something that makes the GFC and COVID combined look like a fun day out if USD ever stops being the world's reserve currency, of which Bitcoin aims to undermine.

2\\ Electricity production - someone has to pay for it, all it will do is increase prices (there has to be some sort of incentive to make unproductive generation above whats needed enter the market) and do nothing to assure reliability, which is a transmission issue rather than one of generation.

3\\ Remove Seniors Tax on Social Security - sounds nice until you realise that younger generations are carrying disproportionally higher tax burden as compared to the older generation when they were younger. To offset, taxes would need to increase on younger generations to pay for it, which would have flow on effects on housing, raising families, etc and the economic damage from lower birth rates and unproductive work forces.
Weird that one of his stated policies will be to produce a problematic overabundance of electricity. Sounds like something a speed freak would promise.
Trump doesn’t understand crypto he read words off a prompter to try and pull in some votes and will forget the word bitcoin the second he’s off that stage
It won't mean a thing as he has no idea what Bitcoin even is. It's a grift from his supporters to spin uo some junk, fleece a bunch of idiots, and disappear.
No. Crypto is a nothing burger. If anything, Harris has way more with the Crypto bros due to the Biden admin being in play for crypto to be allowed into ETFs. Crypto is still a speculative asset that the majority of the American population doesn't care about. A union worker from Michigan or a migrant settling down in Arizona have little to know care for the small changes in US policy towards crypto currency