Title: Will the Republican Party exist in 10 years? 

Post:
Looking at the Republican Party right now I don’t see how they have much of a future.  Their message seems to have been completely coopted by the extreme conservative fringe, and while that plays well on places like Fox news, it’s never going to win an election. There are just not enough extreme conservatives out there, and more moderate conservatives are being turned away by the direction the party is headed in.   

What’s more the candidates that the Republican Party is putting up for major offices seem to be getting forced into going along with this far right movement. The message to Republicans from the far right fringes of their own party now seems to be “you either get with us, placate us, or we’ll trash you”.  The left is already going to be trashing any Republican anyway, but now as a candidate you have to face the specter of your own party dumping on you, as Romney did (not that he was a great candidate to begin with).   So you get candidates that look uncomfortable and out of place delivering these messages that veer into thinly veiled hate-speech and pseudo-religious reasoning for policy proposals.   Which is pretty much the opposite of the direction the majority of this country is going in.  

I’m looking at this not as a liberal or conservative, but as a moderate.  I lean vaguely conservative fiscally (against the individual mandate in Obamacare, against S.S. being conscripted, but would like college education to be free at all state universities), and lean liberal on ‘moral’ issues (I’m Catholic, but don’t want to force it on anyone. I believe religious ideology should never be used as reasoning for a law/regulation, and I don’t care if gays get married; they have just as much right to be miserable as the rest of us).    The irony is that while the GOP was always conservative (obviously), much of their message is so over the top controlling it actually violates the tenets of conservatism.  A true conservative is for less government regulation and would be vehemently against regulation of marriage for instance.  So you now have a party that sells itself as conservative, but has Neanderthal-era social policies built around the concept of government control over personal liberties.  In other words, a complete mess.  

As a moderate I did not particularly like Obama during the ’08 campaign.  I don’t like him as President (although my disdain for him has declined slightly).  However, I cannot see myself voting for Romney or any other Republican presidential candidate either.  Neither party particularly appeals to me, but with a choice between the two parties I’m going to choose the one that is true to their stated philosophy & cause (i.e. the liberal party is actually sticking to liberal values), and is NOT attempting to integrate prejudice into their official platform.  I know I’m not alone in this thought, and I predict that the massive body of independents and moderate leaning conservatives will either not vote at all, or vote Democratic.   Unfortunately it seems we’re wed to a two party system, and I haven’t heard a peep about the GOP splitting; so a split between the more moderate republicans, and the extreme right seems unlikely, leading me to believe that the party itself will die before attempting to form two viable parties. 

What are your thoughts on the future of the GOP, and the potential of its demise (at the very least as a  relevant major national political party).  If we could keep it civil it would be much appreciated. 


Top Comments:
Yes it will. If you didn't notice the Republicans won the house in 2010 by a landslide. People have been predicting the death of the Republican party since Watergate. The Republican party will probably be a bit more libertarian in a decade. 
I do not know how many times I'm going to say this. The Republican party is not going to fall apart, both parties go though this same ebb and flow. One side gets the Presidency and holds it for 8 years while the other side "collapses". Around half way though the the cycle the "collapsed" party gains Momentum and takes control of the House, Senate, or both. At the end of the 8 years that party gets elected into the presidency and the cycle flips, then repeats.

We saw this in the 90's with Clinton, in the 2000's with Bush, and currently with Obama. Political parties are aware of this and that is why we see B-level politicians in the middle of this flow running for election. Romney in 2012, Kerry in 2004, Dole in 1996.

As it stands today Obama will win reelection, the Republican's will hold the House and either take the Senate or there will be just about a 50/50 split. For this reason Obama will be able to do even less than he could in the first term, over his second term. Come 2016 The Democratic candidate will have to explain how he/she can do a better job in the next 4 years than Obama could do, which is a real hard position to run on. Meanwhile they will be campaigning against Chris Christie and David Petraeus, people who the Republican base actually like. 

In 2016 the question will not be "will the Republican party survive?", but "what will we do while the Republican party has control over Presidency, Hose, and Senate?"

You have not to worry though because in 2020 we will be having this same discussion about the Democrats and how they will have to "re-brand if they want to stay politically competitive" and then they will take office in 2024.

Repeat until real change occurs. 
http://www.gallup.com/poll/152021/conservatives-remain-largest-ideological-group.aspx

Conservationism is the plurality belief in this country.  Far from fringe, the movement rightward over the last two years (a direct response to the moderate Bush and McCain) is the key to the Republican resurgence, and a more conservative candidate would probably be doing better than the moderate Romney who struggles to articulate conservative values.

While both Republicans and Democrats will exist a decade from now, it's the Democratic Party that has shown itself moving to the ideological fringe in recent years, and given the position of where the ideological center actually sits in this nation, the Democrats have the tougher road ahead of them.
I saw an interesting piece (if this rings any bells for anyone, please link to the article) talking about the house elections.  A surprisingly large portion of those 2010 seats came from districts that had voted republican in every other way for a couple decades, and just happened to have long term incumbent democrats who survived long past this switch.   I believe that contributed, as did the backlash to the specter of Obamacare, now that the specter of it passing has been removed, and chances for repeal slim, I see many seats in the house flipping back to D.  
I'd tend to agree with this, however I feel like this cycle seems particularly A) Desperate and B) virulently hateful.  America's changing, it's not as religious as it once was, and it's a LOT more liberal socially, and what'll accept in their neighbors.  As this is happening the Republican party is appealing to people that are scared by this; racists, bigots, etc.  This population is shrinking.  Without a MAJOR restructuring there is going to be NOBODY to vote for them within a generation. 
My point though with my OP is that while conservatism may be popular the Republican party is moving towards a more controlling LESS-conservative social policy, while also integrating what equates to hate-mongering into their platform.
Social conservatism has always been an oxymoron of sorts - it requires an interventionist social policy that is at odds with the more hands-off fiscal/regulatory policy.  The left is the same way - they're quite liberal on social issues, but do not have a liberal expansionist fiscal or regulatory policy, instead looking for government intervention.

The evidence that the Republicans are moving *toward* more social conservatism, however, does not stand up to scrutiny.  The Tea Party movement is not one of social priorities and has a significant libertarian streak.  The younger people joining the Republican Party are not bothered by gay marriage as much, are not as religious, and are not as hardline on abortion.  The evidence doesn't support a more socially conservative Republican Party now or in the long term.
how so? I think the seats that were in R districts stay R, and most of the rest flip back over to the Dems