Title: Brand's video is thought-provoking.

Post:
A lot of genuinely cool people that I know have been talking about it, so I thought, gee, I should watch it too…and was disappointed. 

So then I asked myself, why do all of these really cool people like it? I think it’s because Brand speaks passionately. And he says some things that are true. 

The problem is, he also says a lot of really stupid and dangerous things, but he makes them sound sort of smart by using big words, like “lachrymose”, which is an adjective that means “prone to crying.” (It’s not a very common word. I only knew it because I recently read it while skimming over a GRE vocabulary list.) He’s also talking really fast, and being funny, and moving around a lot, which makes it hard to think carefully about what he’s saying. 

So I thought, rather than asking for my 12 minutes back, I should engage. Because people are really fired up—they care, and that’s awesome. It’s useful when people express their feelings and try to use their privilege to motivate change, so let’s give him the benefit of the doubt and talk about what he says. For my part, that means that I should explain why I find this video so objectionable. In doing so, I’m going to simplify some really complex problems, and I’m doing that to make them as clear as possible, so we can talk about what to do about them. Because I really, truly care. I just disagree with Brand.

So here’s a metaphor. It’s not perfect, but it’s something concrete to grab on to. Brand is talking about vaguely defined problems at a high level of abstraction, which makes them difficult to understand. Think of this story like one of those Find Your Own Adventure books. We’re going to use it to explore our choices.

1. Introducing the Boat Metaphor
We wake up and find ourselves out at sea, sailing on a ship called the U.S.A. Boats are the way that we get around in the world. Different parts do different things. We divide these up into social, economic, and political parts, and when we talk about problems, we usually focus on specific parts that do specific things, but really they all sort of work together to make a whole boat. And of course, those boats are related to other boats in some even more ridiculously complicated ways, but we’ll just talk about one boat for now. Brand is actually on the U.K. boat, but since a lot of Americans are promoting his video, Brand can be a kind of place-holder for any American who thinks that we should apply what he says to our boat.

Our boat is modeled on a few other types of boats, like democracies. Democracies give everyone a say in the general living conditions of the boat. One advantage is that there are lots of individuals who can share their unique perspectives, and this results in a lot of ideas being generated for how to make the boat better, which is supposed to make them more seaworthy. People have sailed a lot of other types of boats in human history, and surprisingly many were really awful. For example, autocracy—giving individuals absolute power—tends to be a bad idea. The captain gets totally wasted on power. He loses any idea of what it is like to be anyone else, and thinks that he is the most awesome guy in the world. He thinks that everyone should be like, super happy to serve him because he’s obviously right about everything. And we all know people like this, right? So, he ends up abusing everyone else until they mutiny or the ship wrecks. That’s one example of a bad kind of boat, and there are many more.

2. The Current Situation
If you study human history, you’ll find that things are actually a lot better now than they used to be, at least in certain respects. We have cut the global poverty rate in half in mere decades, which is incredibly fast. Billions of people are rising out of extreme poverty. We tend to ignore numbers, so let me say that again in a different way. Imagine that you and your family were literally dying of starvation, but now you now have water, food, shelter, and better access to health care, education and information. How important is that difference to you? That’s right, it’s everything. Now multiply that by a billion. Can you even get a grip on how awesome that is? No, me neither. The point is that this is not trivial. These are real people’s lives, and this matters. That’s not to say there are not serious problems, but we’re doing a lot better, and we are changing at a pretty fast clip. And it’s good that we’re changing quickly, because a clear look at the world shows that we need it. We’re definitely doing some things wrong. But, we are also doing some things right, because we already know that things could sure be a lot worse. So, you know, it matters how we go about changing things. I am pretty sure that most of us do not want to end up on the North Korea boat.

When the U.S.A. first got going, our boat was called a democracy, but really the equal rights only applied to a certain class of people, which was a huge problem. First, we stole the materials to build the ship, including the labor. We also forced the people we stole it from to get on the boat with us. In the beginning we were really a slave ship, where most of the hard labor of rowing the boat was done in brutal conditions below deck while very few enjoyed a leisurely life on deck, and there was no movement between the decks. Half the population was kept in cages, although the conditions of the cages were really different, depending on what deck you happened to be on. So, yeah, we had awful problems. But, things have been getting better. A long way from perfect, of course—but better. Things are better because people fought for change, and because we have a system that allows change. 

Right now, the boat has some holes in it, and it is heavily tilted. It’s taking on water, in fact, and it’s possible that the boat could sink. Most people think that this is obvious, because they’re down in the area of the boat that’s sinking. Some people are drowning, others can barely keep their heads above water, and it’s crowded and scary and people are desperately trying to climb up a slippery deck. Meanwhile, a few lucky people are high and dry—never higher, never better views, never fewer people up on the top deck! It’s hard for some of them to see what’s wrong, because from their perspective things look peachy and they’re not looking too closely at the ship or the effects on the rest of the sailors. That’s a pretty serious situation indeed! Brand is definitely right to point out that we are in trouble, and it’s kind of him to be looking down from the top and at least try to get everyone’s attention. So far, so good.

3. Captain, We’re Humped! What Do We Do?
The key question is: how do we make things better? Brand says that he doesn’t have an answer—but then plows ahead and gives us choices, such as not voting, and vaguely calling for revolution. And this is where I part ways from Brand. Because as much as our situation currently sucks, remember that we are doing some things right, and that things could certainly be a lot worse. So, what stays, and what goes?

4. Not Voting
A lot of people fought and died for democracy, and the right to vote. We built a democratic boat for a good reason, and I’m pretty sure that most Americans agree that this is the type of ship we want to be sailing, although we disagree on the details. I’ll just point out—it is ballsy for a white man to tell us not to vote considering that we only very recently fought some bitter battles so that non-whites and women could even get the right to vote. Think things are bad now? Seems like it would sure be a lot easier for things to get worse if people didn’t vote. Do you really think that your not voting is going to somehow give others any kind of reason to check their own behavior? Of course not—they’ll just pursue their own interests and totally run roughshod over yours. I’m going to go ahead and keep exercising my political rights, because if I don’t, I can pretty much guarantee that someone is going to take them away from me. There’s quite enough of that going on already. It’s actually part of the problem. 

Brand seems to recognize that this is part of the problem, because he says that the system is not responsive to the needs of the people. Which suggests that he thinks it should be, and that probably means a democratic ship, even though he’s talking about the need for a new political paradigm. Ironically, it seems like Brand may want to use a non-democratic way to solve the problem. Which brings us to his second suggestion: revolution. 

5. Revolution
Now, a lot is going to hang on how we imagine the revolution. Revolution could be horrific if he’s talking about burning the boat, or it might actually be pretty awesome if he means it kind of metaphorically, like a revolution in ourselves, although that’s harder to see as a real paradigm change. If you talk that way, it can motivate people, but it’s dangerous not to specify. (The Beatles nailed this one on the head a few decades ago with “Revolution 1”.) So let’s go through the different options quite carefully. We each face the following choice: do nothing, jump off, burn the boat, build an entirely new one, or fix the existing one. 

6. Do nothing
Doing nothing is a very popular option. It can include not voting, but it doesn’t have to. This choice usually stems from a feeling of hopelessness. Now, that is totally understandable. I am sympathetic to that. These problems are really, truly, super-duper next-level tough to even get a handle on, much less solve. And even if you mean well, it’s really hard to maintain the motivation to care all the time, and people get burned out. Some people practice escapism, immersing themselves in activities that otherwise might be perfectly respectable, like watching movies or reading books or playing videogames. We all need breaks to keep working, but the key here is to keep working. Some people ignore the problems to focus on their own lives. After all, most people out there are struggling, and it’s tough to stay above water. So it’s actually really easy to just focus on keeping your own head above water rather than trying to solve the problem—the band-aid option. Other people dismiss the do nothing choice as apathy (lack of caring), but it seems to me that the apathy really comes from hopelessness. Because really, most of us do genuinely care about other people, and we all recognize that a lot of people are suffering. It’s just that most people feel that they can’t do anything about it. And that hopelessness leads to despair. So apathy becomes a way to cope with that despair. We could continue down this path. We’ll most likely sink, but we could also get herded onto a different type of boat altogether if we don’t keep exercising our democratic rights, so either way let’s move on.

7. Jump off
Some people can swim off on their own and manage to fish. Very few people are capable of that, and at any rate that’s a pretty sad and lonely life. It’s not even recognizably human, because what we value most are our relationships with other people. Imagine that you had every material object that you could possibly desire—but absolutely no one to share it with. If you’re like most of us, you’d be totally miserable. This is why people say things like, money can’t buy happiness. We’re social creatures. We’re just not happy unless we have other people to share our lives with.

People who do want to swim on their own can jump off the boat if they want to—sort of. It’s technically against the rules, but those people are extreme individualists that don’t recognize the rules of the boat as authoritative over them anyway, so that point will hardly sway them. They’ll probably be able to get away with it, as long as they go far away, stay away and don’t try to mess with the people in the boats. The rest of us are probably looking for a group solution. The next choice also involves leaving the boat, but taking everyone with you.

7. Burn, Baby, Burn
Calling for revolution without a plan—state-collapse anarchy—is like burning the boat. A lot of people on the boat die, because in a failed state, life is nasty, brutish, and short, to use the famous words of Thomas Hobbes. People who are desperate to save their lives, and their families’ lives, can do (or submit to) some truly horrible things to (or by) other people. There is nothing democratic about this process. Sometimes this is called the state of nature, although there’s nothing natural about it. People will use their advantages to extract concessions from those that remain in the aftermath. This scenario sucks. People who choose to burn the boat haven’t clearly thought through the consequences. Even sociopaths don’t want to burn the boat, because they can see that it’s pretty obviously in their own self-interest to keep sailing with others. It’s pretty much impossible to be convinced of one’s own relative advantage in the ensuing chaos, and if you are, you’re probably delusional. As Hobbes pointed out ages ago, other people can gang up on you. Since this is not a reasonable option, let’s try another alternative: we build a new ship. Note that most anarchists are still with us, because most anarchists are decent people that oppose violence, chaos and destruction—they just want a different ship. In fact, most of them seem to still want a relatively peaceful democratic ship, just one that is pretty different from the one we have right now.

8. Build a New Ship
Whatever you propose for the new ship, you should be pretty confident that you have a clear alternative ship that is better, and also a way of getting everyone to safety. Otherwise, you’re burning the boat. You have two choices: the first is that you can convince people to go along with you; the second is that you force them to. I’ll consider these in reverse order.

Forcing other people to go along with you sounds a lot like totalitarianism. Even if you’re a benevolent and wise person, you’re still only one person, with one perspective on the world. Most of us are pretty corruptible—hence the old saying, power corrupts. You don’t even have to intend to be evil for your perspective to become distorted. According to psychologists, all of us are probably biased. We all heavily favor our own perspective. This becomes a political problem when you have a power advantage and are able to disproportionately advance your own interests. This forcing people option also relies on a pretty crazy assumption—that you know better than the rest of us what is good for us. And really, how could anyone ever be confident of that? Especially if part of what is good for us just is having a say. Again, taking history as our guide, people generally don’t like being forced, and we generally tend to resist.

So really, the reasonable option is to convince people. You’re going to need to persuade everyone to go along with you. Given what we know about human psychology and history, it’s safe to say that we’re going to have some disagreements as to what the best boat looks like—what the details are. So what do we do? Convincing every single person that one particular detail is correct, is crazy hard, if not impossible. But making no decision is worse—we saw that doing nothing, or gridlock, would lead to shipwreck. But there’s an alternative, which is that we can also all agree to submit to the outcome of a fair decision procedure—like voting. A lot of people like the idea that each person should have an equal say, and favor a democratic ship over other types. So maybe, actually, what we need to do is fix the existing ship—we keep a democratic ship, but figure out what we don’t like about the one we’re on. And it seems like given the other options, we should probably use a democratic process to decide what to do. Thankfully, we have one already in place.

9. Fix the Ship
This is starting to look a lot less like a revolution, at least of our fundamental guiding political ideals. A lot of people have successfully created change in the past, usually by having clear goals, creating a plan of action, and being motivated to put that into practice. This helps to get other people to understand why the change is good or necessary. People get nervous about vague alternatives, and it should be fairly obvious by now why that might be. It’s also starting to become more obvious why most of us are not taking to the streets.

So the key is to get specific. Now there are a lot of things wrong with our ship, but there is one that Brand talked about, which is a lack of responsiveness. That is, our democracy seems to be failing in an important respect. The whole idea of democracy is that it is responsive to the needs of the people, and we should figure out why that’s not actually happening. People on both sides of the political spectrum feel as though the ship is being steered in a direction that they don’t want to go—and they’re right, because we have our sails arranged in such a way that really powerful forces can blow the ship off course.

I said before that the ship had lots of parts, that all work together. Democracy is a political ideal, and it’s compatible with a bunch of different types of government, and a bunch of different types of economic systems. So let’s look closer at the moving parts.

10. Why is the Ship Sinking?
Remember that our ship is tilted. It’s tilted because of the economic part. Specifically, very few people are controlling most of the wealth. Again, taking history as our guide, great concentrations of wealth usually lead to very bad consequences, and we can see why the situation is unstable. Leaving aside what to do about that, let’s just examine for a minute its effects on political equality. Because whatever you think should be done about economic inequality, most Americans agree that we should at least have political equality. As it turns out, this economic inequality is distorting our political equality because we have political rules that allow it to. And even if we didn’t have stark economic inequality, you might think that it’s a bad idea to have that kind of a design flaw. This particular kind of error will start a vicious cycle—those that spend more, get more power, and can outspend other people, getting even more power, and so on. That is, it will tend to increase inequality over time. And once you erode enough political equality, you’ve actually transformed the ship into a plutocracy, or rule by the wealthy few. So far, I think we can all agree that this is a really bad situation and we should maybe look at changing the political rules. So let’s take a look at how it works.

11. Campaign Financing
Politicians have to raise money to campaign for office. See, they get votes by spending lots on media to try to influence people to vote for them. The presidential candidates alone spent $2 billion in 2012. This pays for those incredibly annoying ads that play almost nonstop in any swing state. Even if you’re not in a swing state, but there’s a hot issue on the ballot, the political ads are still totally out of control. Sometimes you might even agree with the person or issue, but still think that they’re annoying because there’s too many of them. That they are being kind of mean to the other person. That most of what they are saying is probably either untrue or taken out of context or otherwise being unfair. That they are obviously designed not to give you impartial information, but to persuade you. Psychologists have also shown that the more often you encounter information, the more likely you are to judge that it’s true, even if it’s false. So simply hearing the ads repeatedly has an effect. And that’s actually kind of sketchy if you think about it. So this media barrage needs to end, but no one in the media is going to say that, because that’s where all those delicious billions in ad revenue are going.

So where is all this money coming from? Well, remember that bit I just told you about the concentration of wealth. A few people control the vast majority of wealth in this country. They give money. Multinational corporations also give money, which raises a whole bunch of thorny questions about international money influencing the American political process. It also turns out that people are astonishingly susceptible to reciprocity. Remember that bit about us being social creatures? We naturally want to help people who help us. We like them. Even when you think that you are being impartial, you’re not, and this is based on solid psychological research. So, it should hardly be surprising that politicians aren’t really doing a very good job of representing their constituents. Instead, they are responsive to the people who give them money. And that means that political influence doesn’t really come from the majority, but from a few large donors. And again, none of these presupposes any kind of conspiracy or bad intention. Most of us are decent and well-intentioned people who want to do good. But most of us would totally muck things up if we had power under the current system. And we might not even be aware of it, because power and privilege tend to blind you to the perspective of others. So, trying not to be evil isn’t good enough. We need checks and balances. 

We are a representative democracy, which means that we cede political power to elected representatives. This actually works out pretty well, so that the rest of us can spend our time getting on with life. Most of us actually need to be working to keep the ship sailing, because this is a really complicated ship. Complicated ships also give us a lot of benefits, so it’s not a bad arrangement in theory. Congress is supposed to be the most responsive branch of government. It’s supposed to represent the people, which is why we have this whole voting system in the first place. It’s also supposed to represent the people equally (sort of) through one person, one vote. And the idea there is that they are going to represent our interests, because we put them into office in the first place. But there’s a sense in which we’re losing that control, because of this crazy media circus and massive political donations made by very few people. And that means that all the things that ordinary Americans care about, all the things that we agree and disagree on, aren’t really getting addressed in the way that they are supposed to. I’m sure there’s a lot that you and I disagree on, because my own political views don’t fit neatly into any one category. But I can agree to resolve things with you in a fair and democratic manner, because I do think that democracy is preferable to the alternatives. And so maybe we can start by agreeing to at least hold up democracy as something worth fighting for.

The people who have the money certainly aren’t going to do anything about it, and neither are the politicians. The media is not going to make it an issue, because they profit from it. These groups are all doing just fine under the present rules. They’re not motivated to change them. And we don’t even have to suppose that they are trying to be evil. They don’t see what’s wrong with the current rules because they are looking at things from their own perspective, and it’s their own narrow perspective that sets the rules.
That means that if we want change, we need to look into the mirror. More people need to talk about the problems that come from political spending, and be motivated to change the rules. So, it’s awesome that this conversation is taking place. The people still have the ultimate power. If enough of us care, then we can change things. If not, well, our rights will continue to be eroded. And does anyone want to be responsible for just giving up? After all that others have sacrificed so that we could have these rights? Are you going to go passively on to the plutocratic ship? Yeah, me neither.

12. A Solution
Now there are bound to be some disagreements about how to go about fixing the various problems on the ship. So let’s just restrict ourselves to one specific issue that affects the rights of all of us, which is figuring out how to block the economic inequality from robbing our equal political rights. This is something that most of us can probably agree to. After all, none of us want to sail a plutocratic ship, but that’s actually our current course. Let’s leave the economic arguments to the side, because there’s a lot of disagreement about those, and at any rate we would need a working political process to settle them fairly. So let’s focus on that first.

13. No Political Advertising
Here is one idea: we stop political advertising. We can give any given candidate or issue a platform (some other countries give candidates free blocks of media time) to make their case. They can, for instance, tell us what they believe, what their ideals are, what they think should be done about certain problems or issues, and give us some idea of what they’ll do in particular circumstances that come up. And then as a bonus, we don’t have to tune out endless annoying political ads and we can spend that $2 billion on better things.

Some people think that this is a free speech issue: you should be able to speak your political views, so you should be able to spend your money on politics. And, it is really important that people can talk about their political views. The problem here is that some people are spending their money in ways that undermine the political process. And that’s not the same thing as being able to speak your conscience. We already restrict certain things that we might otherwise think count as free speech, like yelling fire in a crowded theater, or forms of lying like slander and libel. And those are off limits because they are really harmful. And we already restrict what you can spend your money on, like not buying and selling people, because that violates people’s rights. In this case, allowing unrestrained spending on political advertising is really harmful—specifically, it’s harmful in a way that is undermining our other political rights, like equal voting. And that seems even more fundamental. I’m a lot more willing to give up political advertising than I am my democratic right to political influence. But that’s the tradeoff that we’re already making. So it seems worth taking another look at.

14. Full Public Financing of Elections
But that doesn’t go far enough, because of course there is all of that notorious lobbying. And special interests would still give politicians money to vote in their favor. So really, it seems that we need full public financing of elections, and to prohibit private donations. People might think that this is expensive. But it will be less expensive if we spend less on media, and it’s almost certainly less expensive than what the taxpayers are essentially handing out right now through laws that are favorable to special interests. Even if it’s not, isn’t a couple of bucks a pretty worthwhile investment if it guards your fundamental political rights? You spend more on car insurance, and that just covers your car. 

Right now, anyone can give money in unlimited amounts. So those who have money are getting their interests taken care of at the expense of the rest of us. Even the judicial branch, which is supposed to serve as a check on the legislative branch, is not immune to this problem. Supreme Court justices can and do have spouses who can run special political action committees (PACs) that can accept unlimited donations from anonymous donors. So, people that have cases before the Supreme Court could, essentially, give a bunch of money to, say, Clarence Thomas, and no one would be able to prove it. And even if you think that Clarence Thomas is a moral saint, remember that point about human psychology and bias. 

15. Why This Problem?
Now, some people think that this is an economic problem. And we definitely do have economic problems, because great concentrations of wealth just aren’t very stable, and they’re not the most efficient allocation of resources. They’re also less resilient to economic downturn. You don’t need to be an economist to see that we could probably get more bang for our buck elsewhere. But we’re not going to solve them when the rules are set by politicians who are under the control of people who are benefiting under the current system. These political rules practically guarantee corruption. Because essentially, the people who are the best off get to set the rules for the rest of us. And that’s not really a democracy any more, now is it? I think the reason that Brand and many others are frustrated is that it seems as though we are much closer to a plutocracy than a democracy. Because the system is responsive to the needs of the few, and not the many. This undermines the advantages of democracy, like the listening to different perspectives part, the part that is supposed to help us spot and solve problems really well. So the more we move towards plutocracy, the harder it is to change things.

Remember that crazy captain? He couldn’t grasp the perspective of anyone else and sunk the ship? That can happen here. It is happening here. And it doesn’t even have to be intentional. Because we’re all biased—no really, read the psychological research, you and me and everyone, we all are totally biased—it’s just that only some of us are so privileged so as to be able to advance our interests at the expense of others. That’s the whole point of equal political rights. The impartiality of the institution is supposed to correct for the partiality of our own views. 

We are all partial, and that’s not a bad thing. We don’t have to get so angry with each other. Our relationships with other people are perhaps the most meaningful part of our lives, and those are essentially partial. It’s natural for parents to love their own kids more than the kids of other people, and give their own kids attention and resources that they don’t give to other kids. Similarly, I have my political opinions, and you have yours, and we are surely going to disagree sometimes. But, as much as I would love to get my own way all the time, I wouldn’t want to get it by taking away your rights. I want the system to be fair, and I think that most of you are with me on this one. I want you to have a say. I want you to vote. I want you to participate. I want this for you, but I also want this for me. Because you have a different perspective than I do, and I can probably learn something from you. It would be crazy for any one person to think that they’ve got a handle on this huge, messy, complicated ship. That’s completely impossible, even for people who live and breathe politics. Anyone who says they’ve got all the answers is either delusional or a liar. So it’s better to have some humility about your own position. We do better as a whole ship by pointing out all the things that we think are wrong with the boat and making a decision together. Because one of the things that unites Americans is that we do believe in democracy. Sometimes that means we’ll have to go along with decisions that we disagree with if they are the outcome of our democratic process.

So yes, Brand, we have problems, and thank you for pointing that out. The solution is not to stop voting. The solution, as I see it, is to empower voting. The solution is not to take undemocratic means—it’s to be more democratic. Without this piece of the puzzle in place, it’s pretty hard to see how we’re going to make any other kind of changes, because what this does is affect our ability to make changes in the first place. It’s also pretty easy to see how our political rights are going to continue to be eroded under the current system. So that’s why we need to solve this problem first.

We’re going to disagree about a lot of the details, but this particular one, I think, is a pretty fundamental one that most Americans can agree to. 


Top Comments:
Holy shit that's long.   You expect us to read that? 

Just kidding.  I did read it... mostly.   Come back and say the same thing in 200 words without all the extended metaphors and you're going to get a much more favorable response.  

I will say this. Brand suffers from a the same problem as so many would-be revolutionaries.   Lack of positive vision.   It's easy to poke holes.   It's easy to just throw up your hands in frustration and walk away.   But in the end, it accomplishes nothing.   It's hard to rally people behind that. 
TL;DR

Seriously though I skimmed some of this and will take a long look at it on my 2 hour train ride tomorrow. 