Title: Should social media fact-check, label, remove, or disregard non-hateful political speech that, irrespective of intention, is inaccurate?

Post:
Through the history of the United States, a culture of free speech has persisted.

Political speech is a type of speech that relates to the government, public policy, or political issues. Political speech is often considered to be a core form of free speech, as it enables citizens to participate in democratic processes, express their views and preferences, and hold public officials accountable.

However, political speech also raises some of the most difficult and contentious questions for social media platforms.  
  
How should they balance accuracy & credibility with the respect for diverse perspectives and opinions?

Should social media platforms fact-check, label, remove, or disregard political speech that doesn't promote hate or violence but, irrespective of intention?, is inaccurate?

Top Comments:
[A reminder for everyone](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalDiscussion/comments/4479er/rules_explanations_and_reminders/). This is a subreddit for genuine discussion:

* Please keep it civil. Report rulebreaking comments for moderator review.
* Don't post low effort comments like joke threads, memes, slogans, or links without context.
* Help prevent this subreddit from becoming an echo chamber. Please don't downvote comments with which you disagree.

Violators will be fed to the bear.

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/PoliticalDiscussion) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I don't think it's possible for them to do  so.  At a core level moderation takes effort; which involves costs.  The amount of content produced on a site simply exceeds the amount that they could moderate;  there is not enough revenue coming from the site to enable them to do the kind of moderation it would need to moderate everything that appears.

There's already a lot of free moderation provided just for reddit to exist as it does. I'm not aas familiar with other platforms.  But I imagine that like many internet companise the margins they run on are fairly thin.

If you want quality content you have to pay for it; because quality costs money.  People don't like to pay on the internet, so you get a lot of low quality stuff.  If you wanted higher quality on social media, you'd need an alternate funding model.
As long as there is a solid foundation in facts, in general, yes.

We have seen how speech that is not aimed at hate or violence, but the promotion of lies and deliberate inaccuracies, can cause massive harm. See the disinformation regarding Covid, vaccines, climate change and the like, where nearly all scientific evidence point in one direction, and demagogues that try to undermine the recognition of these issues. 

The reality is that these kinds of ideas that are based on the spread of disinformation and outright lies undermine the idea of the marketplace of ideas. The ideal of the marketplace of ideas is that the better arguments will convince people about the validity of the better idea. The issue is that this ideal was formulated in the time of enlightenment where the logic of the human was highly overestimated, and the effect of emotional speech was not recognized. These open disinformation campaign directly work in undermining and destroying the marketplace of idea, because they take the issues away from a factual argumentative realm into a purely emotional sphere, where the factually better arguments cannot win against emotionally charged lies. 

Because of that, it has to be addressed when proven inaccuracies are propagated. Having a fact-check in social media might not help these that are already caught in the insanity of some of these movements, but it might save people that only start to go down the rabbit hole.
absolutely not. we don't need a "Ministry of Truth", or more censorship, or for Section 230 to be gutted. there was a time when folks thought Earth was the center of the universe, saying otherwise was inaccurate. let folks do their own research and make up their own minds.
No they should not.

I'm sorry but the modern zeitgeist obsession with misinformation has led to soviet levels of paranoia and frankly should be treated with the same contempt with each we treat that era's obsession.

Particularly when the real problem is a lost of faith in institutions that have repeatedly failed at their responsibilities. The made all the worse when the indulge in the above paranoia afterwards. (it's not a good look) In order to fix this you need rebuild and repair the institutions to worthy of being trusted.

For example, *Nature* published a [study recent](https://phys.org/news/2023-03-political-economist-impact-journal-nature.html) showing that its endorsement of Joe Biden undermined it's credibility. The lesson that should be learned is that the journal has a role that does not and should not include endorsements. This both prudent because it places itself above partisanship and because the endorsement was based on the belief that Biden would "restore trust in truth, in evidence, in science..." despite the fact Biden had and would manipulate and interfere with scientific institutions for his administration's own end. An example being when the [CDC bypassed established norms to bend to the Teacher's Unions preferred policys.](https://oversight.house.gov/release/investigation-reveals-bidens-cdc-bypassed-scientific-norms-to-allow-teachers-union-to-re-write-official-guidance/) *Nature* now shares in that scientific perversion and is effectively tool of the Biden Administation. 

The solution, again. Rebuild and repair the institutions to worthy of being trusted.
Absolutely not. Who gets to be the arbiter of what is 'inaccurate'? We certainly shouldn't be trusting tech CEOs with that responsibility. If we had a community based network that wasn't owned by billionaires I'd say a group could be put together, but not in this ecosystem.
Pretty soon we will have junk chat AIs that write fake articles and create fake Internet people to comment on those articles and it will be done to spread misinformation for some powerful entity to further its interests. 

Fact checking isn't going to fix this because it's a Herculean feat for any ethical person or entity to attempt. So NO we'd be better off trying to figure out how to disallow certain tech from being used on the Internet all together and simply let people be misinformed here or there until they decide to get smarter.
Social media platforms have been shown to be effective weapons to destabilize societies and topple governments through widespread misinformation and manipulation campaigns already.  They need to be heavily regulated to protect societies from those who wish to harm or exploit society.  

I don’t pretend to have a solution for this, but we know that Twitter has been used to destabilize the UK and US and other countries around the world.  It’s a private company driven by profits with no real accountability to the societies they harvest for users.

It is too easy for state actors posing as citizens from another country to willfully pit actual citizens of an adversary against one another.  We’re it not for Twitter alone, the timeline for many countries would be much different.  More stable and peaceful.  So yes, these platforms need to be reevaluated.  

Free speech is a human right for humans talking to each other but platforms that cannot guarantee that the entities using them are not the same as town squares or newspapers or books even.  They are weapons of mass misinformation that track the bias of their users and give the perfect vehicle for unjust people to exploit the bias and lack of critical thinking skills of people through cleverly crafted propaganda campaigns be it for profit or power.