Title: Ted Cruz is campaigning in Mississippi today with Bryan Fischer, an extremist religious leader who thinks all homosexuals should be arrested and that we should adopt Russia's ban on homosexuality. Why is he getting a pass from the media on his endorsements?

Post:
Recently, Trump has been roasted by the media for failing to adequately disavow David Duke's endorsement once in the countless times he's been asked about it. While Trump's infamous interview with Jake Tapper did look awful and he gave very strange, evasive answers, the media and opposing candidates have used it to continuously lie that Trump has never disavowed Duke at all.

Similarly, when Obama first ran in 2008, he was constantly pressured by the media and Hillary to disavow his own extremist endorsements, such as Jeremiah Wright, Louis Farrakhan and Bill Ayres. I'm sure most people who followed politics back then remember the great speech he gave about race relations in this country in response to the controversy that followed him on the campaign trail.

In contrast to how other candidates have been treated, Ted Cruz is proudly showcasing an endorsement from an anti-gay bigot who thinks that [being gay should be illegal](http://www.rightwingwatch.org/content/fischer-everything-would-be-better-if-homosexuality-was-illegal) and [treated like a criminal drug addiction.](http://www.rightwingwatch.org/content/afas-fischer-gays-should-be-treated-drug-addicts) He has even [blamed the Holocaust on homosexuals.](http://www.rightwingwatch.org/content/afas-fischer-outdoes-himself)

This is nothing new for Cruz, who has previously [taken money from a white supremacist](http://mobile.nytimes.com/2015/06/22/us/campaign-donations-linked-to-white-supremacist.html) and touted an endorsement from [another prominent homophobe, who also appeared at a white supremacist group's event and once gave money to none other than David Duke.](http://mediamatters.org/blog/2016/01/27/what-the-media-isnt-saying-about-ted-cruzs-newe/208226)

Why is Cruz getting a pass on his radical associations? Does the media simply prioritize homophobia lower than racism? Is the fact that Cruz's name isn't Donald Trump enough for the media to give him a free pass on everything? What gives?

**EDIT:** Cruz's campaign has apparently cancelled the campaign stop in Mississippi today. Still, it's a question worth asking.

Top Comments:
At the moment he is not Trump and not being Trump is priority #1, #2, #3, #4, etc. He gets a pass on it for now.

Crisis breeds strange bedfellows. 
It's important to note that being gay was illegal in Mississippi until 2003. This guy isn't reviving an era that's that long-gone.
Whatever the specifics of Cruz's relationship to this guy, he does have ties with these people; it's totally egregious and should, in fact, be getting more attention. That said, I can think of a couple reasons that it's getting less attention in the mainstream press. 

1.) It's old news. People on the Christian Right have been saying stuff like this for years (that's a major reason sites like Right Wing Watch exist) and the association between the Christian Right and the Republican Party isn't in dispute. Moreover, the Christian Right is in decline.  

2.) Whereas the unpleasant people Trump seems to have tangential associations with have been mostly shut out of the Republican Party by design for a while. Some of the people he's being linked to, like the 'alt-right,' didn't even exist five years ago. That _is_ news.  

3.) The logic of race and immigration stuff in the context of the election is a lot more volatile. LGBT people aren't a major demographic force in national elections, because of the overall size of the community, how it's distributed nationally, and because the percentage of the population that's LGBT is basically fixed. Whereas the black and latino communities are much larger, geographically concentrated, and are growing. 

4.) LGBT issues simply haven't been high on the agenda this election. The last thing that happened was a major court victory that didn't involve the federal executive or the legislature. Right now things are pretty quiet. If the political heat about RFRA or bathroom bills picks up, crazy people on the Christian Right will be back on the agenda again. 
Cruz is getting a pass in the primaries. The press is hoping he wins, so the "lunatic fascist theocrat" can be torn up in the general election. They did it to Romney too; very, very tame until the RNC convention. Then BOOM the media dropped torrents on him. You could see the change in coverage almost immediately after the primary. They'll do the same to Cruz, and he'll lose to Clinton. 