Title: JONATHAN TURLEY: Meta's Zuckerberg makes a free speech move that could be truly transformational
Date: No date found
URL: https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/jonathan-turley-metas-zuckerberg-makes-free-speech-move-could-truly-transformational

Constitutional law attorney Jonathan Turley provides analysis of Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg's announcement, where he highlighted a focus on free speech and admitted the Biden administration pressured the company into censorship.
"Faithful friends are hard to find." For the free speech community, those words from Shakespeare have long been tragically true. Indeed, until tech billionaireElon Muskbought Twitter (now X), we were losing ground around the world to an unprecedented anti-free speech coalition of government, corporate, media, and academic interests.
Now, Musk may have added a major new ally that could help turn the tide for free speech: Mark Zuckerberg.
In a new video,Meta's CEOannounced that the company would adopt X standards and restore free speech protections across Facebook, Instagram, and Meta platforms. Meta will also end its third-party fact-checking program, introduce a 'community notes' system, and focus on removing criminal and fraudulent material—the very guidelinesproposed by some of usin prior years.
META ENDS FACT-CHECKING PROGRAM AS ZUCKERBERG VOWS TO RESTORE FREE EXPRESSION ON FACEBOOK, INSTAGRAM
For the free speech community, it was like the United States entering World War II to support Great Britain. Where Musk stopped the progress of the global anti-free speech movement, Zuckerberg could actually help us regain ground around the world.
As one of Zuckerberg's most vocal critics over free speech, it is admittedly hard to trust the Meta CEO. We all love redemptive sinners, but it would be more impressive if the redemption preceded the apprehension.
Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Meta, arrives for a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing at the Dirksen Senate Office Building on January 31, 2024 in Washington, D.C. The committee heard testimony from the heads of the largest tech firms on the dangers of child sexual exploitation on social media.(Alex Wong/Getty Images)
So, allow me a brief cathartic moment...
In the last few years, a mix of House investigations and litigation has forced more of the censorship system under the Biden administration into public view. That is expected to draw even greater attention with the continued discovery in Missouri v. Biden,showing years of false statements about the extent of this government-corporate alliance across social media platforms.
CONSERVATIVES REJOICE OVER 'JAW DROPPING' META CENSORSHIP ANNOUNCEMENT: 'HUGE WIN FOR FREE SPEECH'
In my recent book, "The Indispensable Right: Free Speech in an Age of Rage," I wrote about Zuckerburg and Meta's record on censorship, including their failure (until recently) to release the Facebook files.
Meta resisted efforts to uncover this evidence for years, even after Musk releasedthe Twitter Filesand revealed a censorship system described by one court as perfectly "Orwellian."
While Zuckerburg portrayed Meta as an unwilling partner in this censorship system in his Tuesday video, he and the company ignored several years of objections from many of us regarding the critical role the company plays in targeting and censoring opposing viewpoints.
Facebook evenran a creepy ad campaignto try to convince young people to embrace what they call "content modification" as part of their evolution with technology. It did not work.
While Zuckerburg portrayed Meta as an unwilling partner in this censorship system in his Tuesday video, he and the company ignored several years of objections from many of us regarding the critical role the company plays in targeting and censoring opposing viewpoints.
When the anti-free speech movement targeted Musk, Zuckerberg did nothing for years. Fearing that other companies might restore free speech protections, members of Congress, including now Sen. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., and Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, D-R.I., sent a chilling letter to Facebook stating that it should not even consider such a move or risk becoming "part of our ongoing oversight efforts."
CLICK HERE FOR MORE FOX NEWS OPINION
In a November 2020 Senate hearing, Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., warned Zuckerberg and other CEOs that he and hisSenate colleagueswould not tolerate any "backsliding or retrenching" by "failing to take action against dangerous disinformation."
While Musk defied those threats, the pressure seemed to work with Zuckerberg. It was not until the Republicans won both houses and the White House that Zuckerberg and Meta decided that free speech was worth fighting for.
In his exclusive interview with Fox News on Tuesday, Meta’s chief global affairs officer, Joel Kaplan, admitted that the Trump election changed the situation for the technology company: "We have a new administration coming in that is far from pressuring companies to censor and [is more] a huge supporter of free expression."
When the anti-free speech movement targeted Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg did nothing for years.(ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS/AFP via Getty Images)
It is a chilling statement if one thinks of what might have happened ifKamala Harrisand Tim Walz, arguably the most anti-free speech ticket in history, had won. The suggestion is that the new spring at Meta would have turned into a frozen tundra for free speech.
Around the world, free speech is in a free fall. Speech crimes and censorship have become the norm in the West. A new industry of "disinformation" experts has commoditized censorship, making millions in the targeting and silencing of others. An anti-free speech culture has taken root in government, higher education, and the media.
We will either hold the line now or lose this indispensable right for future generations. Zuckerberg could make this a truly transformative moment but it will take more than a passing meta-culpa.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
We need Zuckerberg now more than ever.
So, with that off my chest, I can get to what I have longed to say: Mr. Zuckerberg, welcome to the fight.
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM JONATHAN TURLEY
Jonathan Turley is a Fox News Media contributor and the Shapiro Professor of Public Interest Law at George Washington University. He is the author of "The Indispensable Right: Free Speech in an Age of Rage" (Simon & Schuster, June 18, 2024).